Social Security Pension Scheme
Chhattisgarh
BPLDisabledDwarfPensionPwDSocial Security
Details
The "Social Security Pension Scheme" was launched by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to Below Poverty Line (BPL) Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) and dwarf individuals to support them in living a respectful life.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive a pension of ₹500/- per month.
Note: The pension amount will be directly transferred to the applicant's bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The applicant should be either a person with a disability or a dwarf person.
Children with disabilities (CwDs) aged 6-17 years are eligible, the CwDs in the age group of 6-14 should be school-going.
Persons with disabilities who are 18 years or older and have a disability of 40% or above are eligible for the scheme.
The applicant should not be receiving pension benefits from any other central or state government pension scheme.
The applicant's name should be included in the list of families living the Below Poverty Line.
Note: Disabled children aged 6-14 years who are not attending school are not eligible.
Application Process
Offline
Online
In Rural Areas:
Step 1: The applicant, who fulfills the eligibility criteria, may visit the office of the Gram Panchayat and collect the application form, which is available free of cost.
Step 2: Fill out the application form and submit it to the Gram Panchayat. You will receive an acknowledgment receipt from the Gram Panchayat.
Step 3: The Gram Panchayat will review and recommend the application and then forward it to the District Panchayat within 07 days.
In urban areas:
Step 1: Eligible applicants should visit the office of the concerned Municipal Corporation, Municipality, Nagar Panchayat, or Panchayat Raj institution to collect the application form, which is available free of cost.
Step 2: Fill out the application form and submit it to the respective office (Municipality/Municipal Corporation/Nagar Panchayat). You will receive an acknowledgment receipt from the office.
Note 1: The concerned urban body/District Panchayat has the authority to approve or reject the applications.
Note 2: If a printed application form is not available, you may submit your application on plain paper.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof (e.g., Aadhaar card)
Domicile certificate of Chhattisgarh
Proof of age (e.g., Birth Certificate, Marksheet, Passport, or Driving License). If none of these documents are available, age must be certified by the Sarpanch in rural areas, or by the Mayor, Administrator, or Chairman of the Municipal Corporation, Municipality, or Nagar Panchayat in urban areas.
Disability certificate
For disabled children aged 6-14 years, a certificate regarding being a student by the principal/head teacher of the concerned school
For dwarf applicants, a certificate from an authorized doctor
Bank passbook or bank account details
Any other documents as required
Note: If the applicant does not have a bank account, the applicant will have to open his own savings account in the bank immediately after the acceptance of pension.
