Stipend Scheme (P.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Punjab
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerEducationEngineeringLabourMedicalProfessional DegreeScholarship
Details
The "Stipend Scheme'' scheme by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Punjab, is a welfare scheme that provides financial support in the form of stipends for the education of the children of registered construction workers, including hostel fees. This assistance is also available for beneficiaries pursuing their own education in evening classes.

Benefits

Class Boys Girls
1st class to 5th class ₹ 3,000/- ₹ 4,000/-
6th class to 8th class ₹ 5,000/- ₹ 7,000/-
9th and 10th class ₹ 10,000/- ₹ 13,000/-
11th and 12th class ₹ 20,000/- ₹ 25,000/-
College Students (All types of graduation/ Post Graduation) technical or other professional studying I.T.I/ Polytechnic ₹ 25,000/- (₹ 40,000/- in case of living in hostel) ₹ 30,000/- (₹ 45,000/- in case of living in hostel)
Medical/Engineering (All types of Medical/ Engineering Study) ₹ 40,000/- (₹ 60,000 in case of living in hostel) ₹ 50,000/- (₹ 70,000 in case of living in hostel)
Note:
Stipend shall not be granted in the fail cases in the last class.
If the Beneficiary has availed such benefits from any other department/ institute of Punjab Government, he/ she will also be entitled to get benefit under this scheme. 
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Punjab.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should have a monthly income of ₹15,000/- or below.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
The applicant should not have membership of the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF)/ National Pension System (NPS)/ Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).
The applicant should not be an income tax payer.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered construction worker Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Punjab or the child of a registered construction worker.
The applicant should be enrolled in an approved institute or university.
The applicant should be studying/ pursuing course in any of the following:
Primary Education: 1st class to 5th class
Middle School: 6th class to 8th class
High School: 9th and 10th class
Senior Secondary: 11th and 12th class
College Students: All types of graduation/Post-Graduation, including technical or professional studies
Vocational Training: ITI/Polytechnic
Professional Courses: Medical/Engineering (All types of Medical/Engineering studies).
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
For new registration of workers please approach the nearby Sewa Kendra or Registering officers/ Labour Inspector.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
To apply for benefits of the concerned welfare scheme, please approach to nearby Sewa Kendra or Registering Officers/ Labour Inspector of your area.
Note:
Registration with the Board: A construction worker becomes a member of the board by filling out Application Form No 28 along with depositing registration fees of ₹ 25/- only (once in life) and ₹ 10/- per month as contribution fees. A worker at a time can get himself registered for a minimum period of 1 year & maximum period of 5 years. The registered worker is called 'Beneficiary' of the Board.
Important Links:
Check Your Registration Application Status: Registered workers can check their registration application status through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Download Registration Card: Registered workers can download their registration Registration Card through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Check your Scheme Application Status: Registered workers can check their scheme application status through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
CSC Locator: Visit this link to search nearest Common Service Center (CSC) of your area.
List of Sewa Kendra: Visit this link to see the list of Sewa Kendra.
Helpdesk:
Punjab Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
Address: Labour Bhawan Model Welfare Centre Phase 10, Sector 64, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab, 160062
Phone : +91 172-2540125
Email : bocwhq@gmail.com
For Bocw Portal Related Queries (Technical Support):-
Phone : +91 172-2540125
Email : bocwhq@gmail.com
Office Visiting Hours : Monday to Friday
(09:00 AM to 05:00 PM)
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Age proof (If no age proof is available self declaration).
Residence proof.
Aadhaar card(if available).
Bank Account details (Bank branch, account No. and IFSC/ RTGS number).
Detail of dependents.
Employer’s Certificate (Form No. 28) (90 days of construction work during the last 12 months in the State of Punjab).
Nomination Form (Form No. 27).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Photo of Student Attested by the School/ College/ Educational Institute.
Certificate issued by School/ College/ Educational Institute regarding admission in the present class.
Last/ Previous Passed Class Certificate issued by the School/ College/ Educational Institute.
Hostel Proof Certificate by Educational Institute (if yes).
