Shramashakthi Special Women's Scheme
Karnataka
Economic EmpowermentLoanMinority CommunityWomen
Details
The "Shramashakthi Special Women's Scheme" was launched by the Minorities Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka, and implemented by the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation. This is a special scheme for the economic empowerment of widowed, divorced, unmarried women of the minority community. Under this scheme, ₹25,000/- loan and ₹25,000/- subsidy will be provided to undertake various economic activities.

Benefits
Financial Assistance: 
A total of ₹50,000/- is provided, comprising ₹25,000/- as a loan and ₹25,000/- as a subsidy.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a female. 
The applicant should be a widowed, divorced, unmarried woman. 
The applicant should belong to a religious minority community as defined in the Government Order.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Karnataka.
The applicant's age should be between 18 to 55 years.
The annual family income of the applicant from all sources should be below ₹3,50,000/-.
The applicant's family member should not be a State/Central Government employee. 
The applicant or family members should not have availed of benefits under any other scheme (Excluding the Arivu Scheme) of the KMDCL in the last 5 years.
Application Process
Online
Step-01: Applicant need to visits the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation official website.  
Step-02: Click "Apply Online" and Enter "Mobile Number" and "Submit".   
Step-03: Enter "Aadhaar Number" Fill in the "Captcha" and Select "Next".
Step-04: Applicant will get OTP in his/her Aadhaar Linked Mobile Number.
Step-05: Enter "OTP" and select "Continue", After that Allow the official notice.
Step-06: After verifying the Aadhaar again fill in the "OTP" and Submit.
Step-07: Select the scheme "Sikhligar’s Community Development Scheme" and fill in the basic details father's name, gender, qualification detail
Step-08: Select "Next" Fill in the address detail and again select "Next".
Step-09: Upload the required document passport-size photo, educational document, income certificate, etc. 
Step-10: Click "Proceed" and Select "Submit Application" and get an Application ID.
Documents Required
Project Report.
Caste/Minority Certificate (issued by the competent authority).
Income Certificate (issued by the competent authority).
Copy of Aadhaar as Residential Proof.
Copy of Bank Passbook.
Self-Declaration Form from Surety.
Self-Declaration Form.
