Top Class Education For Students With Disabilities
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
Books And StationeryEmpowermentPerson With DisabilityScholarshipStudentTuition Fee
Details
A scholarship scheme by DoEPwDs for Students with Disabilities (SwDs) pursuing studies beyond class 12th admitted in a full-time course in one of the 'notified institutions'. The students with the specified disabilities defined in Schedule of the "Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016" will be eligible under this scheme. This includes persons with visual, hearing, speech, loco-motor, mental retardation, and other disabilities.

At times SwDs are deprived of harnessing their latent skills and thereby miss the opportunity. This scheme aims to support SwDs to study further in order to prepare themselves to earn their livelihood and to find a dignified place for themselves in the society as they face several barriers physical, financial, psychological, mental in pursuing studies and living with dignity.

Benefits
Payment of Full tuition fee and non-refundable charges (Ceiling of Rs. 2.00 LPA per student for private sector institutions)
Living expenses: ₹ 3000/- per month per student.
Books and stationery: ₹ 5000/- per annum per student.
A computer/laptop with accessories (UPS and printer) is limited to ₹ 30,000/- per student (one-time assistance).
Reimbursement of expenses for the purchase of Aids and Assistive Devices including necessary software related to the particular disability of the selected candidate: ₹ 30,000/- per student (one-time assistance).
Special Allowance (related to types of disabilities like Reader Allowance, Escort Allowance, Helper Allowance etc.): ₹ 2000/- per month.

The aids and assistive devices may include:

For the blind I low vision -
(i) Braille / Brailer Typewriter
(ii) Laptop with Screen reading software
(iii) Laptop with Screen Magnification software
(iv) Talk software for mobile phone accessibility
(v) DAISY Recorder and player

For the hearing impaired -
(i] Binaural digital programmable hearing aid with provision for button cells.
(ii) Cell phone with SMS SIM Card
(iii) Laptop with WiFi (Blue Tooth) facility.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Student admitted in a full-time course in one of the "notified institutions".
The Percentage of Disability should be 40% or above.
The applicant should be Pursuing a Graduate or Post Graduate Degree or Diploma.
The Total Annual Income of the Parent / Guardian should be less than or equal to ₹ 6.00 Lakh per Annum.
The applicant MUST NOT be the third sibling in his/her family who is availing of this scholarship.
Application Process
Online

Step 1:   Keep ready the soft copies of the required documents.
Go to http://www.scholarships.gov.in/. and click “New Registration”.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory)
Fill the details and click “Register”. 
Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later.
Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application.
Documents Required
Income Certificate.
Domicile Certificate.
Self-attested Degree/Mark Sheet of the last qualifying exam.
Fee Receipt of ‘Current Course Year’.
Bank Details of the applicant or of the Parent/Guardian.
Aadhaar Number.
Bonafide Student Certificate from the school/institute.
Recent colour photograph of the candidate.
Certificate of Disability (issued by a competent authority).
Declaration Certificate (issued by HoD or competent authority of the university or institute).
