Kabir Anthyesthi Anudan Yojana
Bihar
BPLDeathFinancial AssistanceFuneral
Details
The scheme "Kabir Antyesthi Anudan Yojana" was launched by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Bihar. Under this scheme, a one-time grant of ₹3,000/- is given to the family/dependent of the deceased to cover funeral expenses. The grant is provided for the death of any person of any age from a Below Poverty Line (BPL) family. This scheme is fully funded by the State Government.
Objective:
The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the dependent of a deceased member of a poor family in the state for funeral expenses.

Benefits
Under this scheme, a one-time grant of ₹3,000/- is provided to the family or dependents of the deceased person to cover funeral expenses.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Bihar.
The applicant should be a family member or dependent of the deceased person.
The deceased should belong to a Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
Note: The grant is provided to cover funeral expenses for the death of any person of any age from a BPL family.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits of this scheme, applicants should submit an application on plain paper or in the prescribed format, along with the required documents, to the Mukhiya (for rural areas) or the Ward Commissioner (for urban areas).
Grievance Redressal and Escalation Matrix:
The complaint can be lodged in the office of the Block Development Officer, Sub-divisional Office, Assistant Director, District Social Security Cell/District Child Protection Unit, Director, Social Security Office, and Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/Secretary, Social Welfare Department. Apart from this, under the Bihar Public Grievance Redressal Rights Act, 2016, the office of the Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the sub-divisional level and the District Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the district level are functioning.
Documents Required
Identity proof of the applicant i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Identity proof of the deceased person i.e. Aadhaar Card
Death certificate of the deceased person
Proof of age of the deceased person
Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card/ Ration Card
Address proof
Bank Passbook/Bank account details
Any other documents as required
