Innovation In Science Pursuit For Inspired Research (INSPIRE) - Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
DoctoralFellowshipScienceUniversity
Details
INSPIRE Fellowship is one of the components of INSPIRE scheme implemented by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India to strengthen the Science and Technology base of the country. This Component focuses on attracting students to pursue doctoral degrees in basic and applied sciences including engineering, medicine, agriculture, veterinary, pharmacy, etc. after either master’s degree in science/engineering or a bachelor/ master’s degree in Medicine.

Benefits
Duration
The fellowship shall be tenable for a maximum period of five years from INSPIRE Fellowship “Effective Date” or completion of the Ph.D. program (i.e. up to the date of successful Ph.D. viva-voce), whichever is earlier.

HRA
HRA to the Fellows shall also be applicable as per GoI norms depending upon the location of the Host Institute.

Contingency Expenditure
Expenditure of contingency grant would be governed as per host institution norms. The limit of the contingency grant is ₹20,000/annum. The unspent balance of the contingency grant at the end of a year shall be adjusted to the next year with a maximum ceiling of ₹ 20,000.

Internship
INSPIRE Fellow shall be allowed for availing of a short-term Research Internship at any national or international Laboratory/ University/ Institute up to a maximum period of 18 months either in one or multiple slots during 5 years tenure of Fellowship. 

Upgradation of Fellowship from JRF to SRF
The up-gradation of Fellowship from Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) to Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) would normally be considered after the completion of two (2) years of INSPIRE Fellowship. However, it can be considered after completion of one year as JRF if INSPIRE Fellow has an acceptance of at least one research paper (as a 1st Author) in any international peer-reviewed journal from the Ph.D. work carried out at the respective Host Institute.

Mode and Cycle of Payment
The fellowship grant shall be transferred through PFMS to the student’s host institute’s ZBSA Bank Account in the Bank of Maharashtra following CNA (Central Nodal Agency) Model. Host the institute shall transfer monthly fellowship to students’ bank accounts following the host institute norms.
Eligibility
1st Rank Holders in any recognized University and academic Institutions (Excluding Autonomous Colleges) in India in Post-Graduate (PG) level examination in Basic/Applied Sciences including Engineering, Pharmacy, Agricultural Sciences, and Veterinary Sciences. 
1st Rank Holders at the Graduate/Post-graduate Level Examination in Medicine only conducted by a University/ Institution in India.
1st Rank should be obtained in university in basic/applied science subject course/program having a batch size of a minimum of 07 students with a minimum aggregate of 70% marks (or CGPA equivalent) for the entire course/ program.

OR

INSPIRE Scholars who have secured a minimum of 70% marks (or CGPA equivalent) in aggregate at M.Sc. integrated M.S. / M.Sc.

Note 1: Merely fulfilling the eligibility criteria for the INSPIRE Fellowship will not guarantee the final offer of fellowship. 
Note 2: Subject Expert Committee (SEC) will finally recommend the applications for the award of INSPIRE Fellowship considering the academic merit, research proposal, supervisor’s research credentials and host institution, etc. parameters on a competitive basis.
Note 3: This Fellowship shall be available only for pursuing a full-time Ph.D. program in any recognized University / Institution/ R&D Laboratory in the country.

Post-Selection Eligibility Criteria for Continuation of the Fellowship
Keep DST updated regarding the Research progress made during fellowship tenure.
INSPIRE Fellow shall not take any paid or unpaid assignment other than related to his/her approved research program. However, if required, the fellow may assist the host institute in its academic activities as per Ph.D. program guidelines governed by the Host Institution, provided such assignments shall not hamper the progress of the research work of the fellow. 
Once the INSPIRE Fellow joins the Fellowship, he/she shall complete the research work within the 5 years tenure of the fellowship to achieve the approved objectives of the research problem.
The INSPIRE Fellow must acknowledge the support provided by DST in all the publication(s)/patent(s) and Ph.D. Thesis.
Soft copy of the Ph.D. thesis published research papers and patent details if any shall be submitted in a USB storage device to the INSPIRE Programme Division of DST by speed post.
DST needs to be informed about any disciplinary action taken by the University against INSPIRE Fellow.
Application Process
Online
Call for INSPIRE Fellowship Applications
Call for INSPIRE Fellowship applications is announced during 3 rd/4th quarter of each financial year. Applications are sought from the eligible students through the given below INSPIRE Web-portal: https://www.online-inspire.gov.in

One can apply for the INSPIRE Fellowship, online mode, only against the call. To apply online, please visit the link https://www.online-inspire.gov.in and follow the guidelines as given:

Step 1: Log in to the portal by entering the username (registered Email ID) and password.
Step 2: A screen will appear where you have to click the ‘Fellowship’ link.
Step 3: After clicking on the ‘Fellowship’ link, please click the button ‘Apply for Fellowship’.
Step 4: Fill in the mandatory fields of the following section by clicking the 'EDIT' button: Personal Particulars, Contact Details, Educational Qualification (from class 12th standard onwards), Eligibility Criteria, Enrolment in Ph.D., Current Employment details.
Step 5: Check the Declaration Button. Enter Place, Date, and Verification Code (CAPTCHA). 
Step 6: Click 'Submit'. Once you click the SUBMIT Button, a page will appear mentioning that your application has been submitted successfully. A reference number will also be mentioned which shall be used for any communication.

Note 1: Please SAVE your filled details before proceeding to the next section.
Note 2: Fields marked * are mandatory.

IMPORTANT: Please note that you cannot Edit/Modify your application once you click SUBMIT Button. Please ensure that all the particulars you have provided are correct. You can click the 'PRINT PREVIEW' button to view the details entered.

Check Application Status
One can view the status of the application by entering the Application Reference Number in the portal. 
All applicants selected for the INSPIRE Fellowship shall be informed by an Email notification sent to the registered Email ID.

Online Selection Process
Two-tier selection process i.e. screening of eligible applications by an Internal Committee, followed by final selection through an Expert Committee. However, the selection process will be expected to complete within 6 months from the last date of submission of the application/requisite documents.
The result (provisional/final offer/Rejection) of the selection process will be communicated to individually selected candidates through an online web portal (www.online-inspire.gov.in) only. The result shall be uploaded on the respective applicant’s INSPIRE web-portal account only.
Documents Required
Passport size photograph
Xth Class certificate
Mark sheets for provided educational qualifications (12th Std., UG & PG Program)
First Rank Certificate for applicants who are not INSPIRE Scholars
Appointment letter (if employed)

If already enrolled in Ph.D.
The curriculum vitae of the supervisor
Ph.D. Admission Letter (By which Host Institute administration confirmed your Ph.D. admission)
Fee Receipt
Endorsement Letter
Detail Write up of research to be done

If not enrolled in a Ph.D.
The curriculum vitae of the three supervisors.


For Change of Host Institution
No Objection Certificates (NOCs) from the respective Host Institutes and Research Supervisors.
Detailed Justifications for Change/transfer of Host Institute for implementation of Fellowship.
Ph.D. Research area with an up-to-date Technical Progress Report.
CV of the Research Supervisor at the new Host Institute.
Upto date Financial Statement of Expenditure from the initial Host Institute (in case the fellowship grant has been released to the initial host Institute of the INSPIRE Fellow).

After availing of the Research Internship
Internship Report.
Joining Report.

For Fellowship release in the subsequent years
Financial year-wise Statement of Expenditure
Utilization Certificate

Completion of Fellowship Tenure or Award of Ph.D. Degree
A copy of the Ph.D. degree certificate
Ph.D. completion/discontinuation report
Statement of Expenditure (SE) and Utilization certificate(UC) of complete fellowship duration
Unspent balance receipt if any (unspent balance and other earnings against the released grant (if any), shall be remitted to the Consolidated Fund of India (through Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP) i.e., www.bharatkosh.gov.in

NOTE: Soft copy of the Ph.D. thesis, published research papers, and patent details if any shall be submitted in a USB storage device to the INSPIRE Programme Division of DST by speed post.
