Chief Minister's Adarsh Gram Yoiana 2017
Arunachal Pradesh
Drinking WaterElectricity At Household LevelEmploymentHousingInternal RoadsPrimary Health InfrastructurePrimary School
Details
The Objective of the scheme is to develop 60 Model Villages in Arunachal Pradesh, which are equipped with all basic amenities such as 24x7 Piped Drinking water, Electricity at household level, primary school, primary health
infrastructure, internal roads, avenues of employment generation and are open defecation free.

SALIENT FEATURES
A total of 60 model villages (l village per ' Legislative Assembly Constituency) will be developed initially within a period of 2 years.
Selection of villages will be done by a committee headed by Deputy Commissioner along with HOD's of respective districts and the concerned MLAs.
A total outlay of Rs 1.5 Crores per village has been provided.
Block Development Office will be the nodal implementing Agency 
In order to generate rural employment, all works that do not require specific skills will be done by the villagers who are willing to work and are above 18 years of age. Wages will be paid as per latest MGNREGA guidelines and works will be dovetailed with MGNREGA scheme of Government of India.
A shelf of works for the village will be recommended and approved by Gram Sabha and submitted to the BDO. This would be forwarded to the office of the Deputy Commissioner for Administrative and Technical Approval and Sanctions.
All account and records relating to the scheme would be available for public scrutiny.
There would be an effort on convergence with other CSS / State Plan Schemes including MLALAD for optimal results.

Benefits
The following list of works will be permissible under the scheme:
Monetary benefit, Scholarships, Subsidy, etc. like as follows:
l. Piped Water Supply to all households within the village.
2. Providing electricity for all households/ Solar lights.
3. Construction of Pucca Houses for BPL Family (Not already a PMAY/IAY Beneficiary).
4. IHHLs/ Community Toilets [To be dovetailed with Swachh Bharat mission(rural)].
5. MlCs/ irrigation Canal.
6. Construction/Renovation of Primary School.
7. Construction of PHC/ Sub Center.
8. Providing Drainage facility within the village.
9. Internal roads (lntra village roads).
10. Market-shed for rural economic activities.
Eligibility
DISTRICT COMMITTEE
The Deputy Commissioner of respective district will head the District Committee and all Head of Offices of the district will be members of this committee along with local MLA of the concerned assembly constituency.
1. The District Committee will identify and select beneficiary village and intimate the Department of Planning and Finance through Secretary Rural Development for transferring resources, for which a dedicated Current account will be operated by the Deputy Commissioner. On selection of village, the approved resources will be transferred to the
account opened for this scheme. 
2. On submission of Estimates (Approved), the District Committee will release 33.33% (Rs 50 lakhs) to the Block Development Office to initiate Phase 1 of the program.
3. On submission of UC for Phase 1, the District Committee will release another 33.33% (Rs 50 lakhs) to the Block Development Office to initiate Phase 2 of the program.
4. On submission of 66.66% UC for Phase 1 and 2. the District Committee will release the final 33.33% share (Rs 50 lakhs) to the implementing agency for completion of the remaining work.
5. Monitoring and Audit will be performed by an agency identified by the District Committee.
6. The allocated budget is purely meant for project related activities, and is not to be diverted for other purposes or administrative expenses.
7. The Deputy Commissioners will send quarterly reports to the Department of Planning, Finance & investment on the progress of work along with photographs.

BLOCK DEVELOPMENT OFFICE & GRAM PANCHAYAT
1. The Block Development Office will open a dedicated current bank account to be jointly operated by BDO and EO (RE).
2. The Block Development Office along with PRls will conduct Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) Exercise in the selected beneficiary villages and develop social and resource maps showing the existing and proposed assets of the villages. Social map will depict all the Households, Schools, Anganwadi Centre. Primary Health Centrei SubCentre and other Social assets and the proposed works of the village.
3. Resource map will depict the resources available and proposed works within the village such as Rivers, Farmlands, Plantations, and MlCs etc.
4. Based on the PRA Exercise, deflciencies and gaps within the village will be identified and a shelf of work will be developed as per the permissible list. The shelf of work along with the social and resource map of the beneficiary village will be passed in the Gram Sabha.
5. The Minutes of the Gram Sabha along with proposed shelf of work will be submitted to the Block Development Office for preparation of estimates.
6. The Estimates on grant of Technical approval and administrative approval will be submitted to the District committee for release of funds for Phase 1 .
7. On completion of Phase 1 works and submission of UC, the District committee will release funds for phase 2.
8. Similarly on submission of UC for Phase 2, the District committee will release funds for the final Phase i.e. Phase 3 for completion of the entire work.
9. The Block Development Agency will prepare the Project Completion Report and maintain photographs of initial and final completed work.
Application Process
Offline
Please contact to the Gram Panchayat office as well as Block Development Office.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Voter Card.
A valid bank account.
And other related Documents.
