Scheme For Award Of Senior/Junior Fellowships To Outstanding Persons In The Fields Of Culture
Ministry Of Culture
ArtsCultureFellowshipJunior FellowsSenior Fellows
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Award of Senior/Junior Fellowships to Outstanding Persons in the Fields of Culture” was launched by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. The objective of the scheme is to provide facilities and opportunities to the artists in the fields of creative arts or for the revival of some of our traditional forms of art. The scheme would also cover artistes in rural/tribal areas. The fellowships are awarded for undertaking research oriented projects.
       Under this Scheme, a maximum of 200 Junior and Senior Fellows are selected every year. Awardees are paid grant money @ ₹10,000/- and ₹20,000/- per month respectively for a period of two years. The focus of this scheme is on “in-depth study/research” in various facets of culture. These include new emerging areas of Cultural Studies.
Fields/Area:
1. Senior/Junior Fellowships in the Field of Performing, Literary and Plastic Arts.
• Performing Arts ( Music/Dance/Theatre/Folk Traditional & Indigenous Arts including Puppetry)
• Literary Arts (Travelogue/History & Theory of Literature)
• Plastic Arts (Graphics/Sculpture/Painting including Folk Paintings and Research Work on Traditional Paintings/Creative Photography)
2. Senior/Junior Fellowships in the New Areas related to Culture: In the ‘New Areas related to culture’, projects are sought in the following fields :
• Indology
• Epigraphy
• Sociology of Culture
• Cultural Economics
• Structural and Engineering Aspects of Monuments
• Numismatics
• Scientific and Technical aspects of Conservation
• Management aspects of Art and Heritage
• Studies relating to application of Science and technology in areas related to culture and creativity.
The objective is to encourage analytical application of new research techniques, technological and management principles to contemporary issues in areas related to art and culture. General and theoretical macro-studies will not be considered. The proposal should be innovative and application-oriented and preferably interdisciplinary in nature.

Benefits
Under this Scheme 200 of each of the Junior and Senior Fellows are selected every year.
The stipend of ₹20,000/- per month will be given to each artist under the senior fellowships for a period of two years in the age group of above 40 years.
The stipend of ₹10,000/- per month will be given to each artist under the junior fellowships for a period of two years in the age group of 25-40 years.
In addition, there could be a one-time grant up to a maximum of ₹20,000/- or 50% of the cost of the publication, whichever is less, for the publication of selected Project documents. This will be restricted to 20% of the awardees.
Note: The fellowships are awarded for undertaking research-oriented projects. The applicant should provide evidence of his/her capabilities in undertaking the project.
Eligibility
The age of the applicant should be above 40 years for applying under senior fellowships.
The age of the applicant should be between 25-40 years for applying under junior fellowships.
Graduation is the minimum educational qualification for applicants in the fields/areas mentioned in the scheme guideline.
Applicants for senior fellowship should not be the recipient of pension from the Ministry of Culture under the scheme for grant of financial assistance to artists in indigent circumstances.
An applicant should not have availed of the same fellowship earlier. However, an applicant who had been awarded a Junior Fellowship can apply for a Senior Fellowship, provided 5 years have elapsed after the closure of the earlier project.
Note 01: The age of the applicant will be reckoned as of 1st April of the year.
Note 02: Under the Senior and Junior Fellowships, the awardees will submit a six-monthly progress report. In cases where such reports are not received timely, the Ministry may withhold further releases of the Fellowship amount.
Note 03: The selected candidates will have to undertake academic or application-oriented research work on projects for which they have been awarded the Fellowship. They will complete their Projects within two years and submit the same to the Ministry. Extension of time by a maximum of three months will be permissible without any additional financial liability to the Government.
Note 04: A mid-term review/assessment of performance in each case will be carried out after one year and further continuance of Fellowship will depend on such review/assessment.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: Applications for the award for Fellowship will be invited every year. Advertisement is given in Employment news as well as leading newspapers of the States/UTs in English, Hindi, and Vernacular languages for the Fellowship Scheme as per the instructions of the S&F section, Ministry of Culture.
Step 02: Applicants are required to submit online applications on the Website of the Ministry of Culture or Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT).
Step 03: Visit the official website of the Ministry of Culture and click on "MOC Schemes Application".
Step 04: Click on 'Registration' and Fill up the registration form.
Step 05: Get Username and Password for Login.
Step 06: Go to the current scheme status and click on the appropriate scheme.
Step 07: Fill up the form and submit it.
Post-Application Process:
Step 01: An Expert-Committee comprising experts in different fields will be constituted by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, which would in the first stage examine all applications and shortlist the most meritorious among them for eventual selection of the required number of Fellows in different fields/areas.
Step 02: Short-listed Junior Fellowship candidates will be called for an interview/talk by the Expert Committee who will then select the most meritorious candidates up to the required number of Junior Fellowships in different fields/areas. No such interview/talk would be necessary in the case of Senior Fellowships.
Note 01: If the applicants are employed in Central/State Government Departments/ Institutions/ Undertaking/Universities etc., they will have to take leave for a period of 2 years for the period of the Fellowship. They should submit their fellowship applications through the head of the Department/Institution/ Undertaking/University etc. with the written assurance that in case the fellowship is sanctioned, the candidate will be granted leave for the duration of the Fellowship. The first installment of the Fellowship will be released on production of proof of leave sanctioned, in addition to other conditions as applicable.
Contact Details:
a) Section Officer, (S & F) Section at Ph. No. 011-24642133 or through e-mail: scholar-culture[at]nic[dot]in in the Ministry.
b) Director, Centre for Cultural Resources and Training, 15-A, Sector-7, Dwarka, New Delhi-110075 at Phone Number: 011- 25309300; 011-25074256, 011-25309394 or through e-mail: dir[dot]ccrt[at]nic[dot]in
Documents Required
Identity proof
Passport size photographs
Proof of age i.e. Birth Certificate etc.
Documents of educational qualifications
Bank account details
Caste certificate
NOC/consent letter of their employer (In case of  employed applicants ) 
If the applicant is employed in the Central/State Government Departments/Institutions/University etc., a copy of written assurance from his/her Head of Department that in case the Fellowship is sanctioned, the candidate would be granted leave for the duration of the Fellowship.
An undertaking:
 a. Whether you are employed in the Central/State Government Departments/Institutions/University etc or not employed by any organization.
b. Whether you have availed of Junior Fellowship earlier.
