Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST): Scholarship Of Students With Disabilities
Manipur
Financial AssistancePerson With DisabilityPwDScholarshipSocial WelfareStudent
Details
"Chief Ministergi Shotharabasingi Tengbang (CMST): Scholarship of Students with Disabilities" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Manipur. In this scheme, the Students with Disability (SwD) who are a domicile of the State of Manipur, and are studying in Class 1st and above are awarded with scholarship of upto ₹ 8,000/-. The student must be enrolled in a school/college/university/institution recognized by the Govt. of Manipur. The amount of the scholarhip shall be disbursed directly into the bank account of the beneficiary.

Benefits
Class: 1st to 5th; Rate of Scholarship (per annum): ₹ 3,000/-.
Class: 6th to 8th; Rate of Scholarship (per annum): ₹ 4,000/-.
Class: 9th to 12th; Rate of Scholarship (per annum): ₹ 6,000/-.
Graduate & Above (including all Technical Courses): ₹ 8,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (PwD).
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be a domicile of the State of Manipur.
The applicant should be studying in Class 1st and above.
The applicant should be enrolled in a school/college/university/institution recognized by the Govt. of Manipur.
The applicant should not be availing scholarship under any other similar scheme from any source.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The application form can be downloaded from the Department’s website www.socialwelfare.nic.in or collected from the District Social Welfare Offices, Office of CDPOs. The application forms are also available during MeeyamgiNumit at Chief Minister’s Darbar Hall.
Step 2: Fill in the mandatory fields of the Application Form, attach the supporting (self-attested) documents and the passport sized photograph.
Step 3: Submit the form in the Office of the District Social Welfare Officer concerned.
Documents Required
Disability Certificate (issued by the Competent Authority).
Two passport photographs.
Reading Certificate from the Institution.
Bank Passbook.
Aadhar Card/ Enrollment Number/ ID Card (issued by competent authority).
Passing Certificate / Marksheet of the Latest Education Qualification.
