Chief Minister’s Agriculture Mechanisation Programme
Arunachal Pradesh
AgricultureFarmerFinancial AssistanceMechanisationSubsidy
Details
Raising Govt. assistance in consideration of the high cost of Farm Machineries shall be a boon in the entire farm operation in the state as more than 70% population is directly dependent on agriculture. Considering this, the existing Farm Mechanisation Programme (under implementation jointly by the Govt. of India and State Govt.) is renamed into CM’s Agriculture Mechanisation Programme, which was approved by raising the State share subsidy against the distribution of Farm Machineries.
Objective:
To promote mechanization with the law of farm availability.
To provide hiring services for various agriculture Machinery/ Implements of post-harvest technology (PHY) equipment applied for different operations.
To expand mechanized activities during cropping seasons in large areas, especially in small and marginal land holdings.
To introduce improved, newly developed agriculture implements and machines in crop production.
To attain food and farm income security with the enhancement of area under different food and cash crops and transition from obsolete farm practices into technology-based improved farming operations.
Important Features:
District Agriculture Development Society (DADS) is authorized to select the beneficiaries as per Chief Minister's Sashakt Kisan Yojana-CM SKY.
Records of CHC are to be maintained with details of hiring charges by the beneficiary and should be authenticated by District Agriculture Officer.
All Custom Hiring Centers (CHCs) should be Geo-tagged and registered in the portal of the Monitoring & Training division of the Government of India.
Every beneficiary will have to contribute ₹6.00 lakh per CHC.
The subsidy is to be paid only at the source to the dealer of the company.

Benefits
Subsidized Agriculture Machinery
The assistance of tractor subsidies to progressive farmers/ registered co-operative agriculture farming society/ unemployed agriculture and allied graduates belonging to APST in all the districts.
For marginal and small farmers, farm machines such as Power tillers, Water pump sets, etc. as mentioned in the table below are to be distributed as per demand. 
Sl. No. Machine Inputs Approved Subsidy Rate (fixed for all price ranges) (₹ In Lakhs)
1 Tractor (45 HP) with accessories 5.00
2 Combine Paddy Harvester 15.00
3 Mini Combine Harvester 4.20
4 Power Tiller (10 HP) & Above 0.85
5 Rotary Tiller 0.70
6 Power Sprayer 0.15
7 Paddy De-husking Machine (5HP) & above 0.25
8 Atta Chakki 0.60
9 Sugarcane Crusher 0.70
10 Reaper 1.32
11 Paddy Transplanter  1.50
12 Hand operated Winnowe 0.48
13 Power Operated Brush/ Weed Cutter 2.1 HP & above 0.25
14 Power Operated Paddy Weeder 2.1 HP & above 0.15
15 Water Pump Set 6 HP 0.25
16 Water Pump Set 10 HP 0.35
Eligibility
All categories of farmers viz; Marginal, Small, Medium, and Large Farmers.
All the SHGs, Co-operative Societies, FPOs, and Entrepreneurs as identified by District Nodal Agencies, DAO as Member Secretary, DHO, DAH & VO, and DFDO as members.
A farmer or all members of a group of farmers should be first-time buyers of the tractor/ farm machinery.
Farmers should not own a tractor/ farm machinery now or earlier in or their name or in the names of his/ their family members.
Facilities for after-sale services and spare parts should reasonably be available in the area/ district where the scheme is to be implemented.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant may contact the nearest District Agricultural Officer/ Agriculture Development Officer/ Agriculture Field Assistant.
Step 02: The interested farmers will apply to the ADA/ADOs with recommendations from grass-root level Panchayat Leaders (ZPM/ASM/GPM).
Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to the concerned department.
Step 04: Selection of beneficiary will be done through ADA/ ADOs in consultation with the PRI Leader.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Bank account details
Registered mobile number
Permanent Resident Certificate
