Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Pre-matric Scholarship to Other Backward Classes (OBC) for Studies in India
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
OBCOther Backward ClassPre-MatricScholarshipStudent
Details
"Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Pre-matric Scholarship to Other Backward Classes (OBC) for Studies in India" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The objective is to award scholarships to school-going children of poorer OBC parents whose annual income is below double the poverty line.

Duration of Scholarship
The scholarships may be given to the students enrolled in class 1st or any subsequent class of the pre-matric stage in the case of day scholars, and class 3rd or any subsequent class of the pre-matric stage in the case of hostlers. The scholarship will terminate at the end of class 10th. The duration of the scholarship in an academic year will be 10 months.

Benefits
Scholarship
Hostellers: Class 3rd to 10th: ₹ 500/- per month for 10 months.
Day Scholars: Class 1st to 10th: ₹ 100/- per month for 10 months.
Ad-Hoc Grant
An ad-hoc grant of ₹ 500/- per student per annum to all students i.e. hostlers as well as day scholars will also be given.

The scholarship amount will be payable from the date of joining to the date of leaving the school, excluding the period of vacation, which will be about 10 months in a year except in the cases where the students enter late or leave early in the midst of academic year.
Eligibility
The scholarship award will be sanctioned in the case of students whose parents/guardians' income from all sources does not exceed ₹ 2,50,000/- per annum.
The scholarship will be tenable only in such institutions and for such pre-matriculation courses, which have been duly recognized by the concerned State Government and Union Territory Administrations.
Regular attendance records of not less than 60% in the previous year should be a pre-requisite for availing scholarship.
The scholar obtaining benefits under this scheme shall not be allowed to avail of benefits under any other pre-matric scholarship scheme.

Reservation/ Relaxation/ Preference/ Priority
30% of the beneficiaries should be reserved for girl students.
At least 5% of students with disabilities should be covered by grants or scholarships.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the National Scholarship Portal. Here, you should click on the "New Registration" option. This will lead you to a set of guidelines for registration. Please scroll down to read the undertaking carefully. After understanding and accepting the terms, click on "Continue."

Step 2: A registration form will appear. In this form, you'll notice that some fields are marked with an asterisk (*), indicating that they are mandatory. Fill in the required details and then click "Register." Your unique Application ID and password will be displayed on the screen, and you'll also receive this information via SMS on your registered mobile number.

Step 3: Proceed to the "New Registration" page. Here, select "Login to Apply" and provide your Application ID and password. Enter the CAPTCHA code to confirm your identity, and then click "Login." You'll be asked to enter an OTP sent to your registered mobile number. After this, you'll be directed to a page where you can reset your password. Create a new password, confirm it, and click "Submit." This will lead you to the "Applicant’s Dashboard."

Step 4: On the left side of the "Applicant's Dashboard," you'll find an option labelled "Application Form." Remember, the fields marked with an asterisk (*) are mandatory. Fill in the required information and make sure to upload the necessary documents. You have the choice to "Save as Draft" if you wish to complete the application at a later time, or you can select "Final Submit" to submit the application right away.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph
Aadhaar Number
Proof of Educational Qualification
Bonafide Certificate (issued by an institution duly recognized by the concerned State Government/ Union Territory Administration)
OBC Caste Certificate
Income Certificate
Details of the Aadhaar-linked Bank Account.
