Bank Tie-Up Scheme
Punjab
Below Poverty LineLoanScheduled CasteSocial WelfareSubsidy
Details
Through the "Bank Tie-Up Scheme", the Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development & Finance Corporation (PSCLDFC) arranges loans through banks, and subsidy is provided by PSCLDFC. The permanent residents of Punjab belonging to Scheduled Castes and living Below Poverty Line are eligible under this scheme. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Punjab can apply for this scheme.

Benefits
Subsidy: Capital subsidy upto 50% of the total amount subject to a maximum of ₹ 10,000/-.
Sources of Funds: The subsidy is provided by Govt. of India out of SCA.
Loan: The loan amount is provided by various banks operating in the State. 
Rate of Interest: Charged by the Banks as per RBI guidelines.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Punjab.
The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL).
The applicant should be from the Scheduled Caste category.
The annual income of the family of the applicant (from all sources) should be ₹ 67,649/- per annum (for rural areas); ₹ 88,756/- per annum (for urban areas).
The applicant should not already be availing the benefits of the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Take a print of the format of the Application Form (F
orm-I, Form-II) from the official website of the Punjab Scheduled Castes Land Development & Finance Corporation (PSCLDFC). The format of the application form is also available free of cost at the District Offices.
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Office.

Post-Application Processes:
Step 1: The District Manager sponsors the application to the concerned bank branch for joint verification.
Step 2: The cases are sanctioned & subsidy is claimed by the banks.
Step 3: Then these cases are referred to the District level committee chaired by the ADC. 
Step 4: The loan is disbursed to the beneficiaries by the banks along with the subsidy.
Documents Required
Application form duly attested by competent Authority.
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State of Punjab.
Caste Certificate.
Valuation Certificate of property to be mortgaged.
Map of the Property.
Farad Zama Bandi.
A copy of the registry (if the property is self-purchased).
Affidavit regarding the loan.
3 Passport-Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Employer Certificate, Salary Certificate, and Surety Bond (in the case of Service Surety).
Aadhaar Card.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Income Certificate.
