Unemployment Assistance Scheme - Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu
EmployementJobsTraining
Details
The Unemployment Assistance was launched with a view to help the youth who have registered with the District Employment and Career Guidance Centre and waiting in the live register for five years or more to secure an employment.
Unemployment Assistance is also provided to Differently-Abled job seekers. The criteria with regard to the Differently-Abled person to get this assistance is that they should have been on the live register for one year. However, there is no restriction on parental income and age. 

Benefits

Candidate Type Qualification Amount of Assistance (Per Month)
General Candidate SSLC/10th Failed (Secondary School Leaving Certificate). Rs. 200/-
General Candidate SSLC/10th Passed (Secondary School Leaving Certificate). Rs. 300/-
General Candidate HSC /12th(Higher Secondary Certificate). Rs. 400/-
General Candidate Graduation Rs. 600/-
Differently Abled Candidates Illiterate to SSLC/10th (Secondary School Leaving Certificate). Rs. 600/-
Differently Abled Candidates HSC/12th (Higher Secondary certificate). Rs. 750/-
Differently Abled Candidates Graduation Rs. 1,000/-
Eligibility
General Candidate
Resident of Tamil Nadu.
Family Annual Income should not be more than Rs. 72,000/- per annum.
Maximum Age Limit :-
40 Years for General Candidate.
45 Years for Schedule Caste/Tribe Candidate.     
Should be registered in Employment Exchange for 5 years or more.
Should not be a regular student of any school or college.
Should not be in any type of employment.

Differently Abled Candidates
Resident of Tamil Nadu.
Should have Physical Disability.
Should be registered in Employment Exchange for 1 year or more.
No Maximum Age or Income Limit.
Should not be in any type of employment.
Should not be a regular student of any school or college.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step-1: The Applicant can obtain the Application Form from the Employment Exchange Center of his district. or can download the from here. 
Step-2: Fill out the application in prescribe manner.
Step-3: Attach required documents
Step-4: The Applicant have to submit the Application Form and the attached documents to the Employment Exchange Center of his district. 
Documents Required
Any one of the Identification Proof :- Aadhar Card/ Pan Card/ Voter ID/ Passport/Driving License/ Ration Card.
Domicile of Tamil Nadu.
Passport Size Photo.
Email ID.
Mobile Number.
Bank Account Details.
Caste Certificate.
Self Affidavit.
Medical Certificate. (For Disability Proof).
Qualification Documents. (If Literate).
