Kailash Mansarovar Yatra Scheme 2016
Haryana
Financial AssistanceMansarovarPilgrimTourismYatra
Details
The scheme “Kailash Mansarovar Yatra Scheme 2016” was launched by the Tourism Department, Government of Haryana on 12th July 2016. Under the scheme, the government of Haryana provides financial assistance to the pilgrims of the State of Haryana. The financial assistance will be provided up to the extent of ₹50,000/- or 50% of the actual expenditure per person whichever is less. This scheme will be commenced w.e.f. 1st April 2016 and financial assistance will be provided to those applicants who complete the Yatra after this date.

Benefits
The financial assistance will be provided up to the extent of ₹50,000/- or 50% of the actual expenditure per person whichever is less.
Financial assistance shall be provided to a maximum of 50 (fifty) numbers of pilgrims.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Haryana State.
The applicant/pilgrim should complete the Yatra through the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India and the completion certificate in this regard must be obtained from the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India.
The financial assistance shall be given only once to a pilgrim.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: A pilgrim who has completed the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra shall submit the application within two months after completion of the Yatra through the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India to the Director of Tourism Department, Haryana.
Step 02: The application form in the prescribed format (Annexure “A”) shall be required to submit to the Director, along with all the relevant documents.
Step 03: After scrutiny of the documents received from the pilgrims, the Director of Tourism Department Haryana shall submit the same within 15 (fifteen) days to the Administrative Secretary Government of Haryana, Tourism Department for approval.
Step 04: Thereafter, the requisite sanction shall be issued for payment for financial assistance through a Demand Draft.
Documents Required
1. Identity proof
2. Passport-size photographs
3. Attested Copy of the Permanent Residential Certificate (Domicile) of Haryana.
4. Resident Proof/Address Proof
5. Attested Copy of the Yatra Completion Certificate from the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India.
6. Attested copy of required Visa and Passport.
7. Declaration from the pilgrim that he/she never claim this Financial Assistance earlier and would not claim it in the future.
