National Handicrafts Development Programme: Infrastructure And Technology Support: EMPORIA
Ministry Of Textiles
ArtisanBusinessEntrepreneurshipExhibitionWeaver
Details
The scheme "Infrastructure and Technology Support: EMPORIA" is a Component/Sub-Scheme under the Umbrella Scheme "National Handicrafts Development Programme". Under this component, assistance would be provided for the setting up of emporia. These would be set up in commercially viable locations in the implementing agencies' own/rented buildings. The basic objective of the component is to provide a marketing platform to the Local Handicrafts Artisans in their respective area through the outlet and emporia.

Benefits
Financial Assistance and Funding Pattern:
The component-wise financial ceiling for emporia will be as mentioned: New emporia (Rented/Own building); Per Unit Cost (₹): 60,00,000. Strengthening / Renovation; Per Unit Cost (₹): 15,00,000.
80% of the admissible amount shall be borne by the O/o the DC (H) and 20% will be contributed by the implementing agency subject to the ceiling specified.
In the case of NER, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, and Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep- 90% of the admissible amount will be borne by the O/o the DC (H) and 10% shall be contributed by the implementing agency.
100% assistance will be borne by the Office of the DC (Handicrafts) for the Strengthening / Renovation of the existing Emporia.
The rental amount will be borne by the IA.
Eligibility
Central/ State Handloom and Handicrafts Development Corporations and any other eligible Govt. Corporations/ agencies promoted by State Government or local govt. Bodies etc. 
Eligible Non-Governmental Organizations, Registered SHGs, local statutory bodies, exporter bodies/ associations, Apex Cooperative Societies, and National level Apex Societies (registered under the society act/ trust act, etc.), and organizations like IICT, MHSC, HMCM, NIFT, and Export Promotion Councils. 
Producer companies registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act. and working for the promotion and development of Handicrafts & Handlooms.
Any component can be implemented by the department as well.
Application Process
Offline
For the Implementing Agencies:
The proposals in the prescribed proforma along with all the (self-attested) supporting documents in hard copy should reach the concerned Handicraft Service Center (HSC), O/o the DC (HC) in time.

NOTE 1: The proposal sent earlier without any invitation or received after the timeline/last date, mentioned above, will not be entertained.
NOTE 2: Incomplete proposals without the mandatory enclosures and proposals that are not clearly recommended and received after the due date will not be considered.
Documents Required
For Fresh Proposals:
Proposal in prescribed proforma.
Recommendation letter of Field office/Regional Office.
Valid Registration Certificate.
Article & Memorandum of Association.
Bye-Laws.
Three years Balance Sheet & audited statement of accounts. 
Annual Report of last Year.
Affidavit in respect of Non-Corrupt Practice and validity of Registration.
Land ownership document/ Lease agreement for the proposed project/Detailed Project Report.
Feasibility report of the project to be certified by a scheduled commercial bank.
Construction plan and cost estimate duly authenticated by Architect/ Chartered Engineer.
Third-party assessment report from a recognized Chartered Engineer/ technical valuer for equipment/ machines to be installed
Undertaking that balance of the total cost to be borne by the implementing agency, along with escalated cost, if any.
Any other documents mentioned in Proforma/ desired by the competent authority.

NOTE 1: All documents should be attested by Implementing Agency. 
NOTE 2: The implementing agency will be required to sign a Memorandum of understanding specifying quantified deliverables. 
 For Reimbursement Proposals:
Monthly Performance Report/ Performance cum Achievement Report (as applicable) with photographs.
Verification report (Gist of expenditure) with the mode of payment from concerned Asst. Director, Handicrafts Service Centre/Field formation
Utilization Certification in GFR 12A duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
An audited statement of accounts and statement of expenditure duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
An inspection report from the concerned AD of the field office.
Any other documents desired by the competent authority.

For Fresh Proposals as well as Reimbursement Proposals, the applicant is required to certify the following:
1. No financial assistance has been received from any other source for the same purpose.
2. The provisions of the scheme have been fully understood and we take responsibility for the successful completion of the project within the stipulated time.
3. All infrastructures are available with the organization to implement the project.
4. There is no duplication of efforts that takes place with existing schemes of other ministries.
5. The Organization is not involved in any corrupt practices and has not been black-listed by any central/state agencies.
6. No UC is pending in any scheme of the O/o DC (Handicrafts).
