Internship Programme Of The Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (MoEFCC)
Ministry Of Environment,forests and climate change
CrimeEnvironmentInternshipStudentWildlife
Details
Internship at Wildlife Crime Control Bureau provides an excellent opportunity for students/researchers to familiarize themselves with various issues related to wildlife & the functioning of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. The intern shall have an orientation session on the organization and would be assigned specific areas of work. They shall report to and work under the close supervision of the Head of Department. 

Nature of Work
To collect & consolidate data on wildlife crimes or carry out any other task entrusted to them under the directions of the Head of the Department.

Duration
 The Internship Programme in Wildlife Crime Control Bureau will be conducted in two phases in a year, during the summer & winter vacations of colleges. Each programme will be one month long commencing on the 1st of the month and concluding at the end of the month.
Summer Internships shall be conducted during the month of May & June.
Winter Internships shall be conducted during the month of December & January. 

Benefits
Certificate of Internship
Upon the satisfactory completion of the internship, a certificate will be issued to the intern after the submission of the report.

Remuneration
No remuneration shall be paid to the intern.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Indian Citizen.
The applicant should be a student pursuing graduation/post-graduation/diploma in any of the following subjects - Zoology, Botany, Law, Any subject related to Wildlife Management/Conservation/Protection.
The applicant should not be in a regular job either in the Public/Private Sector.
The applicant should not be more than 30 years of age.
Application Process
Offline
The Application in the prescribed format complete in all respects may be sent by post to - 
The Additional Director, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, 2nd Floor, Trikoot-I, Bhikaji Cama Place, New Delhi - 110 066
NOTE 1: The envelope carrying the application should be superscribed “Application for Internship for Month/Year”.
NOTE 2: The Application should reach this office 5 weeks before the proposed date of commencement of the internship.
Documents Required
Copy of self-attested two proofs of identity one being Aadhar Card. 
Curriculum Vitae. 
Recommendation letter of the Head of Institution in official letterhead from the academic institution where the candidate is pursuing his/her studies. 
Self-attested certificates of educational qualifications etc. mentioned in the application form.
