Rise Together
Jammu and Kashmir
Business Start-upEntrepreneurshipFinancial Assistance
Details
The programme shall be focused on introducing and developing community oriented entrepreneurship in J&K by providing strategic and financial assistance to dynamic and motivated youth. The programme envisions promotingcommunity based entrepreneurship optimally to generate jobs, income and promote spirit of social service among new-age young entrepreneurs of Jammu & Kashmir

Objective 
To develop Community Oriented Entrepreneurship in J&K.
To integrate Livelihood Programme for Youth with the Socio-Economic development of Society in general;
To provide necessary handholding and financial assistance  to youth for establishing model Community Oriented Enterprises;
To provide end-to-end (Production to Marketing) strategic support to dynamic and motivated youth of J&K to establish Economic Units integrated with Collective prosperity of Society;
To converge resources and expertise through coordinated action with all stakeholders;
To introduce the new concept of ‘Rise Together’ based on an integrated & projective growth model

The programme is an initiative to Develop Community Entrepreneurship in J&K and facilitate creation of new employment avenues for youth integrated with inclusive development of local social circuits. The indicative, not exhaustive, list of activities to be covered under the programme is as under:
Mechanized Dairy Units.
Automated Sheep Farms.
Departmental Store.
Indigenous Raw Material Based Manufacturing Units.
Wayside amenities & facilitation centres in Tourist Circuits.
Sound and Light recreational facilities.
Smart Teaching- Learning facilities.
Supply & Distribution Network for Retail Food/ Non-Food Products.
Commercial Training Institutes.
Any other such activity necessary/ reassuring promotion of self-reliance & inclusive social development.

Benefits
Financial assistance to the extent of ₹ 20.00 lakh comprising of an upfront subsidy component provided by Mission Youth (Minimum of ₹2.5 lakh or 10% of project cost) and a Loan provided by the Bank (70% of the project cost to the extent of ₹ 17.50 lakh).
The balance cost of the project, not less than 20% of the project cost, shall be self-financed/ self-arranged by the beneficiary youth group as Margin Money for availing the Financial Assistance under the scheme.
The special subsidy so provided towards Repayment under the scheme shall be limited to an aggregate of ₹ 5.0 lakh per case;
Eligibility
Any domicile of J&K is essentially registered with Mission Youth, J&K.
Only the Youth Groups with minimum 3 youth members shall be eligible for Financial Assistance under the scheme;
The financial assistance would be given only to Youth Groups with all its members aged 18 to 35 years having a minimum qualification of 12th standard. Provided that CEO Mission Youth shall be competent to relax the educational qualification criteria for deserving candidates on a case to case basis, based on proper justification. 
Preference will be given to youth registered as Self-Help Groups/ Registered Society/ Registered Trust.
None of the group members shall have availed benefit under any Self-Employment or similar schemes of the Government.
Character Antecedents of all members of the group should be certified by the Police.
The applicants should not be defaulter to any Bank/ Financial Institution.
Loan facility availed by the beneficiaries under Govt. sponsored scheme are not eligible.
The beneficiary must be unemployed. To be certified by competent authority.
Application Process
Online
Mission Youth shall invite proposals from interested youth during the 4th quarter of each year.
Applicants have log in with their Aadhaar on the portal.
Fill out the required information on the portal. 
The Assessment Process shall be completed by the end of each Financial year and the list of proposals shortlisted shall be notified in the Month of April each year.
The selected Youth Groups shall be provided with necessary counselling and, post counselling, the selected youth groups shall submit a detailed project report (DPR) covering all significant contours of the proposed activity.
The DPRs so submitted shall be evaluated by Technical Committee to be constituted by Chief Executive Officer Mission Youth.
The DPRs found up to the mark by the Technical Committee shall be considered for Assistance under the programme.
The Concerned Youth Groups shall be given pre-sanction training to facilitate effective execution of intended interventions.
Documents Required
Domicile Certificate/ Ration Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Date of Birth Certificate issued by the competent authority.
Matriculation Certificate.
Unemployment certificate (Unemployment Certificate is required only if applying as a new business).
Project report of the activity intended to be financed.
