Grant-in-Aid Scheme To Provide Financial Assistance To The Mahila Mandals/ Women’s Self-help Groups (SWAWLAMBHAN)
Goa
EmploymentSelf Help GroupSHGTraining
Details
The scheme "Grant-in-Aid Scheme to Provide Financial Assistance to the Mahila Mandals/ Women’s Self-help Groups (SWAWLAMBHAN)" by the Directorate of Women And Child Development, Govt. of Goa, provides financial assistance to Mahila Mandals/Self-Help Groups for training/orientation for members of the Mahila Mandal/ Self Help Groups for generating their own activity for self-employment. This Scheme is applicable to all the Mahila Mandals/Women's Self-Help Groups duly registered before the competent authority within the territory of Goa.

Benefits
Financial Assistance: ₹ 20,000/- sanctioned as annual grants.
Purpose: For successful functioning in the state of Goa.

Financial Assistance: ₹ 5,000/-.
Purpose: For undertaking any gainful self-employment activity training orientation in the activities.

For the Master Trainers
The Directorate may provide resource persons/ Master Trainers/Instructors for each course of activity through CDPOs.
A fixed honorarium of ₹ 5,000/- will be paid per course..
Actual Travel Allowance (TA) incurred shall be paid if travelling in the Taluka outside his/her jurisdiction.
Eligibility
The Mahila Mandals/Women’s Self-Help Groups should have valid registration with the Department of Women & Child Development, Panaji-Goa.
The Mahila Mandals/Women’s Self-Help Groups shall be operating successfully for their members within the State of Goa.
There shall be a minimum of 20 members for training/orientation.
NOTE: The compulsion of 2 years of registration is deleted.
Application Process
Offline
For the Mahila Mandal/ Self Help Groups
The application in the prescribed format, along with copies of the required documents shall be submitted through the CDPO of the concerned block, Mukhya Sevika at the village level of the respective block, at the cost of ₹ 100/-.

For the Master Trainers/Instructors
The application in the prescribed format, along with copies of the required documents shall be submitted through the CDPO of the concerned block, Mukhya Sevika at the village level of the respective block.
Documents Required
Mahila Mandal/ Self Help Groups
Copy of Registration Certificate.
Last Two Years' Statement of Accounts.
Project Report, Specifying the Activities/training.
Detailed List of Prospective Beneficiaries With Educational Details.

For the Master Trainer/ Instructor
Birth Certificate.
Education Qualification.
Marriage Certificate.
Certificate of Course attended
Document of ID Proof.

NOTE: All documents submitted should be self-attested by the applicant.
