Safai Karmakar Ke Bachche Hetu Chhatravrtti Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceScholarshipStudent Finance
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakar Ke Bachche Hetu Chhatravrtti Yojana" for unorganized worker on 11 March  2015. The main objective of the scheme to provides financial assistance to the children of sanitation workers in India for higher education.

Benefits
Financial assistance provided according to the below table

Classes Boy Student  (Annual Scholarship amount) Girl Student (Annual Scholarship amount)
Class I to V ₹ 1,000/- ₹ 1,500/-
Class VI to VIII ₹ 1,5000/- ₹ 2,000/-
Class IX to XII ₹ 2,000/- ₹ 3,000/-
Graduation (BSc, B.Com, Diploma etc ₹ 5,000/- ₹ 6,000/-
Post-Graduation ( MA, MSc, M.Com) ₹ 7,000/- ₹ 8,000/-
Pursuing graduate level professional course ₹ 10,000/- ₹ 11,000/-
Studying for professional level, doing PhD or research work ₹ 14,000/- ₹ 15,000/-
Eligibility
Only 2 sons/daughters of registered sanitation workers are eligible for the scholarship.
The scholarship is provided for studying different courses.
After admission in college/polytechnic or other course for engineering or medical education, the students receiving scholarship amount under this scheme but student must study for minimum one year in that course.
If such a student is eligible to receive scholarship amount under any scheme of any other government department/institution, then he/she can choose any one scheme which is beneficial for him/her.
The student cannot avail benefits of two schemes simultaneously.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Scholarship application form
Student's birth certificate
Mark certificate of previous year exam.
