Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0
Ministry Of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Cooking FuelHouseholdLPGWomen
Details
In May 2016, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOPNG), introduced the "Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana 2.0" in India. The Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana (PMUY) is a scheme launched by the Government of India in 2016 to provide free LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) connections to women from below-poverty-line households.
The objective was to make clean cooking fuel such as LPG available to the rural and deprived households which were otherwise using traditional cooking fuels such as firewood, coal, cow-dung cakes, etc. The usage of traditional cooking fuels had detrimental impacts on the health of rural women as well as on the environment.

The target under the scheme was to release 8 Crore LPG Connections to the deprived households by March 2020.
On 7th September 2019, the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India handed over the 8th Crore LPG connection in Aurangabad, Maharashtra.
The release of 8 Crore LPG connections under the scheme has also helped in increasing the LPG coverage from 62% on 1st May 2016 to 99.8% on 1st April 2021.
Ujjwala 2.0: Additional allocation of 1.6 Crore LPG Connections under PMUY Scheme with special facility to migrant households. The scheme was launched in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri. Narendra Modi.

Benefits
Cash assistance for PMUY connections is provided by the Government of India - Rs. 1600 (for a connection 14.2kg cylinder/ Rs. 1150 for a 5 kg cylinder). The cash assistance covers:
Security Deposit of Cylinder – Rs. 1250 for 14.2 kg cylinder/ Rs. 800 for 5 kg cylinder.
Pressure Regulator – Rs. 150.
LPG Hose – Rs. 100.
Domestic Gas Consumer Card – Rs. 25.
Inspection/ Installation/ Demonstration charges – Rs. 75.
Additionally, All PMUY beneficiaries will be provided with first LPG refill and Stove (hotplate) both free of cost along with their deposit-free connection by the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs).
Eligibility
1. Adult women belong to any of the following categories.
SC Households
ST Households
Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin)
Most Backward Classes
Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY)
Tea and Ex-Tea Garden tribes
Forest Dwellers
People residing on Islands and River Islands
SECC Households (AHL TIN)
Poor Household as per 14-point declaration
2. Applicant must have attained 18 years of age.
3. There should not be any other LPG connections in the same household.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: You can download Forms from the official website (given below) or get them from the nearest LPG distributor.
KYC Form
Supplementary KYC Document & Undertaking
ANNEXURE - I Self-declaration for Family Composition and Address for release  of new connection under PMUY (for Migrant only)
ANNEXURE - II Mechanics Pre-Installation check of Customers Premises for LPG connection
Step 2: Fill out the application form with the required information, including personal details, bank account information, and LPG distributor preference.
Step 3: Attach the necessary documents along with the application form. The documents typically include proof of identity, proof of address, and proof of BPL category.
Step 4: Submit the completed application form along with the supporting documents to the nearest LPG distributor. 
Documents Required
Know Your Customer(KYC)
Ration Card issued by the State from which application is being made/ other State Govt. document certifying family composition/ Self-Declaration as per Annexure I (for migrant applicants)
Aadhaar of the beneficiary and adult family members appearing in the document at Sl. 2
Proof of Address - Aadhaar will be taken as Proof of Identity and Proof of Address if the connection is required in the same address. In that case, only Aadhaar is sufficient.
Bank Account Number and IFSC
