Griha Aadhar Scheme
Goa
Financial AssistanceMarriageSocial Welfare
Details
The "Griha Aadhar Scheme" is one of the flagship programmes of the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Goa. The objective of the scheme is to address the problem of spiralling prices and to provide support to the housewives/homemakers from the middle, lower middle and poor sections of society, to maintain a reasonable standard of living for their families. Under this scheme, a monthly disbursement of an amount as prescribed under the scheme will be provided every month directly to the hands of the housewives/homemakers to achieve the objective.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 1,500/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a married woman.
The applicant should be above the age of 18 years.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
The gross income of the husband and wife, taken together should not exceed ₹ 3,00,000/- per annum.
A widow with a minor child who is in receipt of benefits under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS) rolled out by the Directorate of Social Welfare, Government of Goa shall be eligible for benefits under this scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2:The applicant should send the application to:
Director, Directorate of Women And Child Development, Panaji-Goa, 2nd floor, Old Education Building, 18th June Road, Altinho, Panaji, Goa - 403 001.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Proof of Present Residential Address (Election Photo Identity Card or any such document which establishes the present address).
(If the applicant is a native of Goa) Residence Certificate (15 years) of Self, issued by Mamlatdar of the Taluka concerned.
(If the applicant is a native of outside Goa) Residence Certificate (15 years) of Husband, along with the Birth Certificate of Self. Provided that the Husband is of Goan origin, and the couple are settled in Goa for a period of one year.
Income Certificate issued by the Competent authority (i.e. Secretary, Village Panchayat/Chief Officer, Municipal Council).
A Self-Declaration in form duly certified and attested before a Gazetted Officer of the State Government, declaring therein that the annual income from all sources does not exceed ₹ 3,00,000/- and also that the applicant or her husband is not employed in any of the entities on regular basis.
Self-attested copy of Savings Bank Account Passbook (with IFSC and MICR details) (The bank account submitted should be preferably Aadhaar linked for DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) purposes).
Birth Certificate of the child along with life certificate (in case of a widow who is a DSSS beneficiary).
Marriage Certificate issued by the competent authority. 
NOTE: In case of non-availability of a Marriage Certificate, the Birth Certificate of the child indicating the name of the beneficiary as the mother may be considered.

For the Beneficiaries
The following documents should be submitted in the respective month in which she was provided with the benefits:
Life Certificate of Self (signed by any Gazetted Officer or MLA or MP)
Income Certificate (issued by the Competent Authority i.e. Secretary, Village Panchayat/ Chief Officer, Municipal Council).
Life Certificate of the Child (In case of a widow who has a child)
