TEC Internship Scheme
Ministry Of Communication
GraduationInternshipPostgraduationResearchStudentTelecommunication
Details
The ‘TEC Internship Scheme’ by the Telecommunication Engineering Centre (TEC), Department of Telecommunications, New Delhi intends to engage 25 Interns in order to study/formulate/operationalize/assess various works/projects/policies etc. The internship Programme will allow young talent to be associated with the TEC work for mutual benefit. It will enable TEC to interact with young scholars and get fresh ideas and study/ research support from academics. At the same time, it will provide an opportunity for young scholars to contribute to the TEC work and have insight into the related technical work.

Number of Interns
The number of Interns will be 25. 
NOTE: The number is provisional and may vary as per the actual requirements at the time of finalisation of the selection.

Duration
The period of engagement initially will be for 6 (six) months, extendable to 12 months, if required.
NOTE: An extension beyond six months shall be permitted, on the application of the intern duly recommended by the concerned Head of Division and with the approval of the Head of TEC.

Benefits
Token Amount
The interns will be paid a token amount of ₹ 15,000/- per month.

Certificate
The Interns will be issued a Certificate at the end of the internship.
Eligibility
   1.   The applicant should be a citizen of India.
   2.   The applicant should be studying at a recognized university in India or abroad.
   3.   The applicant should be studying in the 3rd/ 4th year (Final or pre-final year) in Bachelor's Degree course in Electronics/ Communications/ Telecommunication/ Radio/ Information Technology/ Computers / Electrical Engineering or related discipline and secured a minimum of 60% marks.
                                                                         OR
         The applicant should have completed the Bachelor's Degree course in Electronics/ Communications/ Telecommunication/ Radio/ Information Technology/ Computers/ Electrical Engineering or a related discipline course in the last year with a minimum of 60% marks.
                                                                         OR
         The applicant should have completed Post Graduate/Master's Degree courses in Electronics/ Communications/ Telecommunication/ Radio/ Information Technology/ Computers/ Electrical Engineering or related discipline courses in the last year with minimum 60% marks.

Reservation/Preference/Priority/Relaxation
The qualifications may be relaxed in deserving cases based on the needs of the TEC, on the recommendations of the Selection Committee and approval of the Head of TEC.
Candidates having exposure in the area of intended internship with good academic background and having higher qualifications, based on need shall be given preference.

NOTE: Possessing the minimum qualifications above shall not guarantee an Internship in TEC.
Application Process
Online
Interested and eligible candidates must submit their applications, specifying their areas of work interest in the prescribed format through the online link available on the TEC website on or before 31st October (tentative) of the respective year.
NOTE 1: The scanned copy of the duly filled application Form (Annexure-II) along with supporting documents should be uploaded as a single file.
NOTE 2: The file format should be PDF.
NOTE 3: The file name should be the same as the applicant's name.
NOTE 4: The file size should be less than or equal to 10 MB).
Documents Required
Documents Required
Curriculum Vitae (CV).
Letter of Recommendation by the Institution.
Documentary proof of the conversion norm of their institute/ university (only in the case of applicants with CGPA mentioned in their degrees instead of percentage marks).
