Border Areas Development Department
Meghalaya

Details
The main objective of the BADP is to meet the special developmental needs and well-being of the people living in remote and inaccessible areas situated near the International Boundary (IB) and to provide the border areas with essential infrastructure by convergence of BADS/other Central/State/UT/Local Schemes and through a participatory approach especially in six thematic areas - Basic Infrastructure, Health Infrastructure, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion and Skill Development. In border areas, the provision of essential infrastructure facilities and opportunities for sustainable living would help integrate these areas with the hinterland, create a positive perception of care by the country and encourage people to stay on in the border areas, leading to safe and secure borders.

The following basic principles will guide the implementation of the BADP: 
a) Projects for developing infrastructure in strategically important villages/towns (as identified by Border Guarding Forces) will be given priority. 
b) Border Guarding Forces (BGFs) will be co-opted as part of the decision making process at all levels (Planning/ Execution / Monitoring). 
c) Keeping in view the limited availability of funds under BADS, the State/UT Level Screening Committee (SLSC/UTLSC) will ensure convergence with schemes of line Ministries and State/UT Governments and other available resources to ensure holistic development of the strategically important villages/ towns in the border areas. 
d) MHA will work in close collaboration with, inter-alia, M/o Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, M/o DoNER, M/o Health & Family Welfare, M/o Human Resource Development, M/o Jai Shakti, M/o New and Renewable Energy, M/o Power, M/o Rural Development, M/o Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, M/o MSME, M/o Women & Child Development, M/o Youth Affairs & Sports etc. to promote infrastructure development, improved connectivity, better social services and to provide sustainable livelihood opportunities in the border areas. 
e) Works/projects will be evaluated regularly through Social Audit mechanism, besides Prabhari Officers in addition to ongoing mechanisms of State/UT/ Central Governments. 
f) Saturation / coverage through ongoing developmental schemes of various Ministries of Government of India, if necessary, by relaxation of guidelines and yardsticks with the approval of the competent authority. 
g) Medium-Term perspective — Four/Five Year Perspective Action Plan would be prepared for development of identified habitations by pooling resources as mentioned in sub clause (c) above. For the subsequent years, the Annual Plan would be drawn up within the overall perspective plan and inclusive of objectives carried forward, modifications necessitated due to lessons learnt and other developments. The Annual Plans would be a subset of the same. For the first year, along with a prospective plan, an annual plan would also be submitted. The States would strive to achieve saturation of beneficiaries and creation of infrastructure under various Government Schemes by 2023. 
h) Competition among Districts: The Districts would be challenged to compete among themselves on the basis of incremental changes and their performance would be recognized and rewarded. 
i) Comprehensive Development: For comprehensive development of border districts, BADP will have two components - first will be saturation of beneficiaries and ensuring creation of infrastructure in border districts through convergence of various Government Schemes, and second part will be Border Area Development Scheme(BADS) for convergence and filling up gaps to achieve desired levels of development.

Benefits
(A) Roads and Bridges
   (i) Construction and up-gradation of roads. 
   (ii) Construction of bridges and culverts. 
   (iii) Construction of Foot Suspension Bridges. 
   (iv) Construction of retaining walls to protect the roads in hilly areas. 
(B) Health infrastructure: 
                (i) Construction of houses for Government doctors, paramedics and other Government officials
                engaged in the health sector in border census villages/ habitations. 
                (ii) Building infrastructure (SHC/PHC/CHC) including their up-gradation. 
                (iii) Setting up of Government mobile dispensaries/ambulances. 
                (iv) Purchase of medical equipment in Government Hospitals. 
(C) Education infrastructure: 
                (i) Construction of houses for Government teachers and other government officials engaged in
                 education sector. 
                (ii) Construction of Primary/ Middle/ Secondary/ Higher secondary school buildings and their 
                up-gradation/addition such as construction of additional classrooms, computer rooms and
                laboratories. 
               (iii) Construction of hostels/ dormitories in Secondary/ Higher Secondary school. 
(D) Agriculture infrastructure 
               (I) Construction of minor irrigation works. 
               (ii) Water conservation programs. 
(E) Sports infrastructure: 
               (I) Construction/ development of play fields. 
               (ii) Construction of a mini stadium.  
               (iii) Construction of indoor courts for table tennis/ badminton/ basketball / handball. 
(F) DWS projects: Drinking Water Supply projects in Government schools /census villages/ census towns.
(G) Social Sector infrastructure 
               (I) Construction of anganwadi center. 
              (ii) Construction of a community center. 
(H) Development of Model villages — the State / UT Government may undertake multiple infrastructure    development works/projects in a village on a hub and spoke model. 
(I) Construction of infrastructure for Small Scale Industries. 
(J) Maintenance of assets created under BADS. 
(K) Administrative Expenditure. 

The estimates of each work/project proposed under BADS should be checked and approved by the Competent Technical Authority in the State/UT and an 'Abstract of Cost' of each work/project, duly signed by appropriate technical authority should be furnished by the State/UT Government along with the APP.
Eligibility
The BADP is a Core Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS). Presently, the Program covers 396 Blocks of 111 border Districts in 16 States and 2 Union Territories abutting the International Boundary viz. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir (UT), Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. Previously it has largely worked as a 'stand-alone' vehicle for project financing; it will now be converted to a programme which seeks comprehensive development. 
The program will cover all the census villages/ towns, semi-urban and urban areas located within 0-10 Km distance (crow — fly/ aerial distance) from the first habitation from International Boundary (IB). The imaginary line joining all the first habitations from the IB will be the Zero line for BADP and the 10 km distance towards the interior will be calculated from this zero line. The State/UT Government will compile and provide a latest map of this border belt (0-10 Km) - district wise, depicting all the census villages, semi-urban/ urban areas with latest population statistics. The State/UT Government will furnish village/ town code (2011 Census) allotted by Office of the Registrar General & Census Commissioner, Government of India, for mapping of the villages/ towns on the BADP Online Management System (BADP OMS).
Within this 0-10 km area, census villages, semi-urban and urban areas identified by BGFs as 'strategic villages/towns' shall be given highest priority. Once 0-10 km area is saturated, the program may cover 10-20/30/40/50 km area

The funding is 90:10, 90% Central, 10% State respectively as of now.
Application Process
Offline
Documents Required
The Central Government is supplementing the efforts of the State Governments in this direction through special Central assistance for special area programs such as Hill Area Development Program (HADP) and Western Ghats Development Program (WGDP). Broadly speaking, development planning is of two types: the central planning and the indicative planning: the former is practiced in a centralized economy where the role of the state is dominant in the socio-economic life of the people.
