Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme for Railway Protection Force
Ministry Of Railways
RailwayRPFRPSFScholarshipStudent
Details
Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme (PMSS) for Railway Protection Force (RPF) was announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India in his address to the nation from the historical Red Ford on 15th August 2005. Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme for RPF was introduced in the Academic year 2008-09. It was introduced to encourage higher technical and professional education for the dependent wards of Ex/Serving RPF/RPSF personnel and widows (below the Rank of Gazetted officer).
Scholarship Available:
A total number of 150 students (from academic session 2015-16) have been earmarked to RPF for an academic session. Half of the scholarships are reserved for female candidates i.e. 75. Shortfall in fresh cases shall not be adjusted from girls/boys, if applicants (boys/girls) are available less than 75. It is also mentioned that unallocated quota in any gender may not be utilized for other categories (boys/girls). Distribution of scholarships among Zonal Railways and RPSF will be as under:- 
Sl. No. Zone/Organization Quota
1 CR+KRCL  10
2 ECoR 06
3 ECR 08
4 ER 16
5 NCR+CORE 06
6 NER 06
7 NFR 08
8 NR+JR RPF Academy + RDSO 16
9 NWR+ Construction 04
10 SCR 06
11 SECR 04
12 SER 10
13 SR+ICF 10
14 SWR 04
15 WCR 04
16 WR 10
17 RPSF 22
18 Total 150

Benefits
1. The amount of the scholarship would be as follows:
     (i) ₹2500/- per month for male students
     (ii) ₹3000/- per month for female students
2. Letter from Hon’ble Prime Minister - All applicants selected under the new category will be given a personal letter from Hon’ble Prime Minister in appropriate language.
3. Duration of the Scholarship: Two to five years as per the duration of the course.
Note: The payment of the scholarship will be granted after approval of the DG/RPF as per order of merit in each year.
Eligibility
Eligibility of Students:
The dependent wards of Ex/Serving RPF/RPSF personnel and widows (below the Rank of Gazetted officer) are eligible to apply under the scheme.
Students who have taken regular admission are only eligible for PMSS.
Students should have secured 60% and above in Minimum Entry Qualification (MEQ) i.e. 12th Std., Diploma/Graduation.
The scholarship is admissible for only two wards per family and should be ensured by the beneficiaries as well as by the concerned zonal Railways/RPSF.
Only the institutes/universities/colleges having AISHE regulations will be permissible/eligible.
Students studying abroad are not eligible for this scheme.
No distance learning course is permitted under this scheme. 
PMSS can be availed for one course only.
Courses Eligible for the PMSS:
Professional Degree Courses like BE, B.Tech, BDS, MBBS, BEd, BBS, BCA, MCA B. Pharma, etc. duly recognized by the respective Government Regulatory Bodies, such as All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Medical Council of India (MCI), University Grants Commission (UGC), National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) etc. (Master Degree Courses are not eligible for PMSS except MBA, MCA).
Minimum Marks in MEQ:
At least 60% marks/equivalent grade in MEQ for entry to various Professional Courses for the initial sanction of scholarship. MEQ for various courses are as:
Sl. No. Professional Course/Technical Course MEQ
1 MBBS and equivalent Medical courses 12th 12th Standard 
2 B.E., B.Tech 10+2/Diploma (Diploma in case of lateral entry) 
3 BBA, BCA, B.Sc.(Ag) etc. 12th Standard
4 MBA, B.Ed., MCA Graduation
5 BA LLB/BBA LLB/BSc LLB/B.Com LLB (5 year Integrated course only) 12th Standard
Order of Preference: 
If the number of applications exceeds the number of available scholarships, the order of preference for allotment of scholarships will be as under :
Category (I): Wards/widows of ex-RPF/RPSF personnel who died in harness due to causes attributed to encounters with terrorists or with criminals while protecting Railway Property, Passengers and Passenger Areas or those who died during election work.
Category (II): Wards/Widows of ex-RPF/RPSF personnel who died while in service.
Category (III): Wards of ex-RPF/RPSF (retired) personnel.
Category (IV): Wards of serving RPF/RPSF personnel.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: Online submission of the Application form can be done through the website of the National Scholarship Portal.
Step 02: On the home page, select “Central Schemes” and then “Ministry of Railway” to apply under the scheme.
Step 03: Click on the ‘Apply’ Button, if a New User, the applicant needs to Register.
Step 04: Fill out the Registration Form with all the details corresponding to the titles/labels appearing on the Registration page.
Step 05: After successfully getting the registration done, applicants will get their “Student Registration ID”. Through “Student Registration ID” applicants will be able to login into the Account. 
Step 06: After successful login to the portal, the home page will appear and by clicking the “Application Form” Icon, applicants will be directed to the Application screen.
Step 07: Now, the applicant can fill out the complete application form and by clicking the “Final Submission” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 08: On successful submission of application/documents, a system-generated registration number is sent to the applicant which can be used for future references.
Post-Application Process:
1. Zonal Railways will verify the applications on the scholarship portal, after due verification at their end. Only verified applications will be considered for a grant of scholarship if found eligible as per extant provisions.
2. The Scholarship amount under PMSS for applicants selected under fresh and renewal categories would be credited/transferred directly into the Bank accounts of the selected applicants through the Public Finance Management System (PFMS) under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Mission of the Government. 
Note 01: The final compiled list of eligible candidates will be prepared by the Security Directorate, Railway Board for onward submission to PMO.
Note 02: A mobile number is mandatory to register on the National Scholarships Portal on which One Time Password (OTP) will be received for further process.
Note 03: A maximum of two registrations may be made with a mobile number. Students will ensure that the college/institute/university etc. has registered with AISHE and been allocated the AISHE Code/Regulation.
Documents Required
The following documents in the respective category are mandatorily required to be submitted/uploaded by the applicant for applying under PMSS:
For Fresh Applicant:
Service Certificate issued by respective offices of the serving personnel for category IV. (As per Annexure II).
A copy of the PPO/Discharge certificate/book for Categories I, II and III.
Applicants are required to upload a  scanned copy of the mark sheet/Grade card of MEQ i.e. 10+2/ Diploma/ Graduation (as the case may be).
Aadhaar card
Bank account details
For Renewal Applicant:
 Latest Service Certificate issued by respective offices of the serving personnel for category IV. (As per Annexure II).
Applicants are required to upload a scanned copy of the previous class mark sheet/Grade card/Proof of gradation to the next class issued by the competent authority. (as the case may be).
