Financial Assistance To Inter-Caste Married Couples (Except SC/ST Category)
Kerala
CouplesFinancial AssistanceInter-CasteLegally MarriedMarriage
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Inter-Caste Married Couples (Except SC/ST Category)” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, the Government of Kerala provides financial assistance to inter-caste married couples (except SC/ST category) who suffer from financial problems.

Benefits
Under the scheme, a one-time financial assistance of ₹30,000/- will be given to inter-caste married couples.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State.
The inter-caste married couples who are legally married are eligible for financial assistance.
The combined family income of the couple should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-.
The couples are entitled to financial assistance one-time only.
The couples must apply for financial assistance after one year of marriage but not exceeding 2 years from the date of marriage.
Note 01: The financial assistance should be utilized for purposes like starting a business, for the purchase of land, or for the construction of a house. The Local Self Government Institutions (LSGIs) should ensure that funds are being utilized for the said purposes.
Note 02: While receiving financial assistance, couples will be required to sign an agreement and submit it to the LSGIs.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest District Social Justice Office and collect the application form. The application form can also be downloaded from the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala.
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with supporting documents has to be submitted to the concerned District Social Justice Officers.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. copy of Election ID Card/ Aadhaar card
Passport size photos
Income Certificate (Original) from the concerned Village Officer
Certificate proving that Inter-caste marriage is registered (certificate has to be issued by Sub Registrar’s office, Panchayath President, certificates issued from organizations like NSS, and SNDP are acceptable).
Caste certificate of the couple from the concerned Village Officer
Original certificate (from Gazetted Officer/MLA/ MP) proving that the married couple has been together for the past one year.
Copy of the Ration card of the couple
Bank account details
