Kerala State Young Scientist Awards
Kerala
AwardCash PrizeResearchScienceTechnologyYoung Scientist
Details
The “Kerala State Young Scientist Awards” by the KSCSTE are intended to honour talented young Scientists in recognition of their outstanding contributions in any branch of science and technology coming within the purview of the Council. The research carried out independently in Kerala by young scientists of Indian origin with Ph.D. in any branch of Science and technology who have been working in Kerala for the last three years will be taken into consideration for the award.
             Candidates may be nominated by Vice-Chancellors of Universities in Kerala, Directors of R & D Centres, Heads of Institutions & departments and Fellows of Academies. Nominations will be valid for 3 years or the eligibility age whichever is earlier. Selection will be through a thorough review/evaluation by an expert committee.

Benefits
Each Awardee will be presented with a certificate and a cash prize of ₹50,000/-.
The recipient may be considered by the Council for a research grant of ₹50 lakhs after due consideration of the research project with the help of an expert committee.
The Awardee, within 3 years of the receipt of the award, will be considered for a visit abroad to present the research work at a conference.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Ph.D. holder with 3 years Post-Doctoral experience.
The applicant should have working experience in any R&D/Academic institution in Kerala continuously for the last 3 years.
The age of the applicant should not be more than 37 years as on 31st December in the notifying year.
Application Process
Offline
Nomination Procedure:
Step 01: Applications are invited through advertisement every year.
Step 02: Candidates may be nominated by Vice-Chancellors of Universities in Kerala, Directors of Research Institutes/ R & D Centres of Industries, Heads of University Departments, Principals of Colleges with approved centers of research, Fellows of the Indian National Science Academy, Indian Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Sciences, India, Indian National Academy of Engineering and Indian Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
Step 03: Nominations will be valid for 3 years or the eligibility age whichever is earlier. However, a fresh nomination (only once) can be made, if the nominee has not yet crossed the age bar.
Step 04: Nominations in the prescribed format along with all supporting documents must reach the Director, KSCSTE, Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom P.O., Thiruvananthapuram – 695004.
Note: Nominations that are not complete or received after the due date will not be considered.
Selection Procedure:
Step 01: Candidates recommended by the screening committee after a rigorous criteria-based screening will be invited for the presentation of their research work.
Step 02: The candidates will be informed of their selection for the award individually by mail.
Step 03: The awards will be distributed during the inaugural session of the Kerala Science Congress by the Chief Minister. The Awardees have to make a presentation of the award-winning work in the Plenary Session of the Kerala Science Congress.
Contact Details:
The Head, Science, Technology Promotion Division,
Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE)
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 695 004
Tel: +91 471 2548214
e-mail: stpd.kscste@kerala.gov.in 
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of candidate
2. Educational qualification certificate
3. Post-Doctoral experience certificate
4. Proof of working experience in R&D/Academic institution
5. Proof of age of the candidate
6. Certificate of Ph.D
7. Details of Research Publications/Patent, if any
8. Any other document, if required
