J.C. Bose Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
BoseFellowshipResearchScienceScientist
Details
The “J.C. Bose fellowship” is awarded to active scientists in recognition of their outstanding performance. The fellowship is scientist-specific and very selective. The scientist should be in service at the time of nomination to this fellowship. The nominee should be an Indian national working in institutions in India.
Duration of Fellowship:
The duration of the fellowship will be initially for five years. In case, the fellow superannuates during the term of the fellowship, the fellowship can be continued if a host institution is willing to host the fellowship
The tenure of the fellowship may be extended for the subsequent term of 5 years based on a rigorous assessment of research performance during the tenure of the fellowship. A minimum of 25% of the applicants seeking an extension will not be granted the extension.

Benefits
The fellowship amount is ₹25,000/- per month in addition to regular income.
Research grant of ₹15 lakhs per annum.
Overhead of ₹1.00 lakh per annum to the host institute.
Eligibility
The candidate should be an active scientist with a record of outstanding performance apparent from the award of the SS Bhatnagar prize and/or fellowship of science academies (including engineering, agriculture, and medicine).
The scientist should be in service at the time of nomination to this fellowship.
The nominee should be an Indian national working in institutions/Universities in India.
The fellowship can be availed up to 68 years of age. 
The nominee is not availing of any other fellowship including personal fellowship amount and research grant (part of the fellowship) from any Government sources.
Application Process
Online
Nomination:
The nominations can be sent by the Heads of the Institutions; JC Bose Fellows and Presidents of National Science Academies.
The nominations are received throughout the year.
Online Application Procedure: For successful online submission of the application the following points may be noted-
Step 01: The Nominator should first register on the online website. Click here to register
Step 02: After login, go to Menu --> Proposal Submission --> Form Submission.
Step 03: Some of the details of the Nominee like Name, email, contact details, area of specialization, educational qualifications, employment details & research experience, etc. have to be entered at the time of submission.
Step 04: Research Contribution in the Last 5 years of the Nominee has to be uploaded in a single PDF file not more than 10 MB.
Contact Details:
Member Secretary:
Dr. Jacob V.V.
Science and Engineering Research Board
3rd & 4th Floor, Block II, Technology Bhavan, New Mehrauli Road,
New Delhi-110016, Tel: +91-11-26552216
Email: Jacob@nic.in
Program Coordinator:
Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey, Scientist 'G'
Complete guideline for Nominator for SERB-online system
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Proof of age
Details of research contributions
Details of Education Qualifications
Details of professional training and research experience
Details of Employment 
Details of Awards/Honors (If any)
Details of Publication 
Details of the Patent filed, granted or commercialized
Recommendation Letter
Any other document, as required
