Assistance to Training Institutions Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
ATIEDIFinancial AssistanceMSMETraining
Details
The scheme “Assistance to Training Institutions (ATI) Scheme” was launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Government of India. Under the scheme, assistance would be provided to the training institutions under the Ministry of MSME for the creation, strengthening and expansion of infrastructure, including the setting up of new branches and centres. Further, assistance would be provided for meeting any revenue deficit with the National Institute for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (NIMSME).
            The financial assistance under the scheme to a state-level EDI will be restricted to a maximum of ₹300 lakhs in each case. This financial assistance would be utilized for the development of physical infrastructure, procuring equipment, faculty training and the development of capability in undertaking studies and research on issues related to the MSME sector. This financial assistance would be over and above the grant, if any, received by that institution earlier under the ATI scheme. To receive financial assistance under this scheme, an EDI owned and controlled by a State Government or UT would be selected on the recommendation of the State Government or the UT.
Objective:
The objective of the ATI Scheme is to strengthen the capacity for training for Skill Development, and entrepreneurship, providing training to staff of DICs and related Government institutions dealing with MSMEs and strengthening the overall capacity of National Institutions under the Ministry of MSME to undertake these trainings. Under the Skill India Programme, skill training is being given in accordance with the modules approved by the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF). The major objective of the scheme is the upgradation of physical infrastructure and training skills of Trainers in National Level Institutions under the Ministry of MSME. The scheme also proposes to improve the capacity of staff working in District Industries Centres and Industries Departments in the states.

Benefits
Assistance under the Scheme:
Scale of Assistance to Training Institutions of the Ministry of MSME:
The amount of assistance will not exceed the actual amount required for the creation or strengthening/expansion of the infrastructure of the training institution and meeting the revenue deficit, etc. of NI-MSME.
Scale of Assistance to State-Level EDIs:
The maximum assistance under the scheme to a State level EDI will be restricted to ₹3.00 Crore in each case. This grant would be utilized for the development of physical infrastructure, equipment, faculty training, and development of capability for imparting skill development training related to the MSME sector. This grant would be over and above the grant, if any, received by that institution earlier under the ATI scheme.
For the purpose of grant under this category, an EDI owned and controlled by a State Government/UT would be selected as recommended by the State Government.
Note: The assisted EDI shall be required to complete the construction within the given timeframe and shall have to furnish the utilization certificate of the assistance sanctioned within the period prescribed in the sanction letter. In the event of a delay in the completion of the project, an extension of the time limit will have to be obtained from the Ministry of MSME with justifications.
Scale of Assistance for Training Programmes:
1. Assistance for skill development programmes under the scheme would be provided based on the duration of the NSQF-compliant training programmes (number of hours of training inputs). The cost of a training programme would be determined as per the following base rates notified by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship vide Notification No.H22011/2/2014-SDE-I dated 15.07.2015 as amended from time to time:-
   Category I Courses: ₹38.50 per head per hour of training.
   Category II Courses: ₹33.00 per head per hour of training.
   Category III Courses: ₹27.50 per head per hour of training. 
2. The first installment of the grant would be released in advance. The subsequent installments would be released based on the progress of the utilization of funds already released.
3. Assistance for Training of Trainers (ToTs) programmes would be provided @ ₹60 per trainee per hour (or, the rate prescribed under the common norms/NSQF, whichever is less).
4. Assistance for other types of training programmes would be decided based on the actual requirement in each case.
5. The total amount of assistance to be considered for release as per the above rate will include the cost of overheads such as, motivation camps the for selection of eligible trainees, charges towards hiring of space and equipment (if any), electricity/water, stationary, man hour cost of deployment of project personnel, post-training follow-up activities, etc.
6. The trainees would be expected to make their own arrangements for travel and stay during the training period. In case the residential facility is provided by the Training Institution, it may charge the same from the trainee (subject to common norms/NSQF). It would be permissible to dovetail the assistance under this scheme with facilities/benefits available under schemes of other Ministries/Departments/State/UT Governments etc. for reimbursement of travel, boarding, and lodging expenses and stipend, etc. However, it would be the responsibility of the Training Institution to ensure that there is no duplication and that assistance for the same purpose is not claimed under more than one scheme.
Eligibility
Eligibility criteria for assistance to Training Institutions of the Ministry of MSME:
Assistance may be provided under the scheme for the creation or strengthening/expansion of infrastructure, including the opening of new branches/centres to training institutions of the Ministry of MSME and for meeting the revenue deficit, if any, of the National Institute for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (NI-MSME).
Eligibility criteria for assistance to State Level EDIs:
Assistance may be provided under the scheme to existing State Level EDIs (Entrepreneurship Development Institutes) i.e. owned and controlled by a State Government/UT for creation or strengthening/expansion of their infrastructure.
The financial assistance will be for the specific needs of each case for the construction of the building, purchase of training aids/equipment, office equipment, computers and for providing other support services e.g. libraries/databases, etc. The costs of land, construction of staff quarters, etc. would not qualify for the calculation of a grant from the Central Government.
Financial assistance under the scheme will not be available, henceforth, for setting up of a new EDI. However, the proposals approved or committed earlier would be processed for financial assistance in accordance with the pre-revised guidelines.  
Eligibility criteria for assistance for Training Programmes:
Assistance may be provided under the scheme to conduct training programmes in the areas of Skill Development to the following Training Institutions:- (a) NI-MSME, (b) NSIC, (c) KVIC, (d) Coir Board, (e) Tool Rooms/Technology Centres, and (f) MGIRI.
The financial assistance under this scheme would be of a revenue nature.
Central Government may prescribe such other conditions, as necessary, before sanction/release of assistance.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
The proposals from national and state level EDIs, training institutions of M/o MSME etc. for grant of financial assistance under the scheme shall be submitted to the Deputy Secretary/Director (EDI), M/o MSME, Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi 110011.
Post-Application Process:
Step 01: The proposals for assistance shall be processed for submission to the Screening Committee for consideration.
Step 02: The Screening Committee shall examine all the proposals received under the scheme and submit its recommendations to the Secretary (MSME).
Step 03: After approval of the Secretary (MSME), administrative approval shall be conveyed to the applicant organization, and admissible financial assistance shall be released in accordance with the approval letter. It is clarified that private training institutions/NGOs are not covered under the scheme for assistance for infrastructure support and training programmes.   
Miscellaneous:
An online mechanism for maintaining the details related to beneficiaries is already in place @ www.ati.msme.gov.in. To meet the expenditure related to Aadhaar authentication services and maintenance/development of online software and other miscellaneous/administrative expenses related to the Scheme will be met from the budget provision (General Head) under the Scheme.
Documents Required
1. Copy of PAN Card
2. MSME registration certificate/ Udyam Registration of the unit
3. Bank account details
4. Any other document, as required
