Rajiv Gandhi Social Security Scheme For Poor Families - 2012
Puducherry
AccidentFinancial AssistanceNatural DeathPartial Total DisabilityPermanent Total DisabilityPoverty Line FamilySocial SecurityUnnatural Death
Details
The scheme “Rajiv Gandhi Social Security Scheme for Poor Families - 2012” was started by the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management, Union Territory of Puducherry on 25.03.2011. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to all the below Poverty Line Family members in the Union Territory of Puducherry in the age group of 18-60 years, in the event of natural and unnatural death, partial total disability, and permanent total disability due to accidents.
         A beneficiary under this scheme is not eligible to avail any other benefit in a scheme (if any) operated by the Government of India / Government of Puducherry / Local Bodies of Puducherry Government to cease/misuse the double claim at present time or in the future under any circumstance.
Definitions:
“Member” shall mean all persons in the age group of 18–60 years in the Below Poverty Line (BPL) family, whose annual family income is not more than ₹75,000/-.
“Partial Total Disability” shall mean a disability that is less than 40 %.
“Permanent Total Disability” shall mean a disability that is more than 40%. 

Benefits
The following financial assistance is provided to the members covered under this scheme:
Natural death ₹30,000/-
Unnatural death ₹75,000/-
Permanent Total Disability (PTD) due to an accident ₹75,000/-
Partial Permanent Total Disability due to accident ₹37,500/-
Eligibility
The deceased/disabled person for whom the claim is made shall be a member of the Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The age of the applicant/member should be between 18-60 years.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The annual family income of the applicant shall not be more than ₹75,000/-.
Note 01: A beneficiary under this scheme is not eligible to avail any other benefit in a scheme (if any) operated by the Government of India/ Government of Puducherry/Local Bodies of Puducherry Government to cease/misuse the double claim at the present time or in future under any circumstance.
Note 02; In case the financial assistance has been sanctioned on the basis of false/wrong information given by the beneficiary/member/ any official of the Government, the entire amount paid is liable to be recovered under the Pondicherry Revenue Recovery Act. The individual is also liable to be prosecuted for deliberately furnishing false/wrong information.
Application Process
Offline
Procedure for making the claim application:
Step 01:  The claim application form is available in all the respective Taluk/Sub-Taluk Offices free of cost. The claim application form can also be downloaded from the official website of the department.
Step 02: The claimant/beneficiary shall claim financial assistance in Form-A if the death of the member is natural or unnatural.
Step 03: The claimant/beneficiary shall claim financial assistance in Form-B if the member is partially disabled or permanently disabled due to an accident.
Step 04: The completely filled claim form shall be submitted to the Tahsildar/Deputy Tahsildar of the respective Taluk/Sub-Taluk Office falling within the jurisdiction of the member, within 180 days from the date of death of the member or from the date of the accident to the member.
Procedure to be followed in settlement of claims:
Step 01: The respective Taluk/Sub-Taluk Office shall scrutinize the claim form and after checking the veracity of the application in all respects shall forward the eligible claim forms along with the enclosures to the Settlement Officer with proper certification by the scrutinizing officers.
Step 02: Claim form submitted to the respective Taluk/Sub-Taluk office after 180 days of the date of death of the member or of the date of physical disablement due to an accident to the member and incomplete claim forms without necessary enclosures shall not be forwarded to the Settlement Officer.
Step 03: The Settlement Officer may accept the claim forms submitted after 180 days from the date of death of the member or from the date of the accident to the member as the case may be if it is duly enquired into and recommended as a genuine case condoning the delay by the Collector.
Step 04: The Settlement Officer shall scrutinize the claim form and after being satisfied with the eligibility shall sanction the financial assistance in Form-C to the claimant/beneficiary in the case of the natural/ unnatural death of the member and grant the same in the form of payment through e-payment vide bank account maintained by the beneficiary in any nationalized bank in the Union territory of Puducherry.
Step 05: The Settlement Officer shall scrutinize the claim form and after being satisfied as to the eligibility shall sanction financial assistance in Form-D in case of partial or permanent total disability of the member due to accident and grant the same in the form of payment through e-payment vide bank account maintained by the beneficiary in any nationalized bank in the Union territory of Puducherry.
Documents Required
Attested photocopy of the BPL Family Ration card
Original Income Certificate of the family issued by the Tahsildar/Deputy Tahsildar Taluk/Sub-Taluk Office
Original Death Certificate issued by the competent authority
Original Disability Certificate issued by the competent authority in case of accident to the member
Attested photocopy of the (i) F.I.R (ii) Post-mortem report (iii) Police Inquest report in case of the accidental/unnatural death
Attested photocopy of the Ration Card or Aadhaar Card
The attested photocopy of the first page of the bank account of any nationalized bank maintained by the claimant/beneficiary
