Government Hostel for Working Women/ Girl Students
Puducherry
AccomodationGirlHostelStudentWomen
Details
The scheme "Government Hostel for Working Women/ Girl Students" is an initiative by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide suitable, inexpensive, and safe accommodation to women employed in government offices, organizations, and firms, as well as girl students studying in colleges. Essential facilities such as a cot with mattress, lockable cupboards, television, newspapers, magazines, etc., are provided in a comfortable environment. The monthly rent for working women is ₹650, and for girl students, it is ₹500. The cost of food is divided among the inmates. 

Benefits
Affordable Monthly Rent: ₹650 for working women, ₹500 for girl students.
Furnished Accommodation with Essential Facilities: a cot with mattress, lockable cupboards, television, newspapers, magazines, etc.
*The cost of food is divided among the inmates. 
Eligibility
The applicant should either be a woman employed in government office/organizations/firm, or a girl student studying in college.
The income of the working woman should not exceed ₹5000 per month.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Pay Certificate from the Organization/Firm (in the case of Working Woman).
Study Certificate from the Institution (in the case of Student).
Aadhaar Card.
Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Voter ID Card.
Passport-sized Photograph.
Declaration/Undertaking (if any).

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
