Salary Reimbursement Scheme
Goa
BusinessEntrepreneurReimbursementSalaryStartup
Details
The scheme “Salary Reimbursement Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. The scheme aims to bolster startup growth by incentivizing the hiring of local talent through a dual-pronged approach. Startups can reimburse 50% of fresher salaries. The process ensures prompt disbursement post SPC approval, emphasizing that benefits are discretionary, not entitlements.

Benefits
For Startups Hiring Local Talent:
50% of the salary of a fresher will be reimbursed, subject to a cap of ₹10,000 per month per recruit. A startup can claim the salary of a maximum of 25 people per month for a period of 3 years. This benefit can be availed of by 100 startups each year, which shall be selected by the SPC as per its guidelines.
For Startups Whose Workforce Comprises 60% Locals:
Up to 25% of the salary of the local workforce, subject to a cap of ₹25,00,000 per year, will be reimbursed for 3 years. A startup can claim the salary of a maximum of 25 people. This benefit can be availed of by 100 startups each year.
NOTE: Once the application is approved by the SPC, the approved amount shall be disbursed within 60 days from the date of approval.
Eligibility
All the Start-ups certified by the Start-up Promotion Cell (SPC) having a valid start-up certificate number are eligible to apply for this scheme.
The employees should be hired for a period of at least 12 months.
For availing the benefit under clause 3.1, the employee/s whose salary is being claimed for reimbursement must be an IT professional/s. 
The bank accounts of employees should be linked to Aadhaar.
The bank accounts of the Directors of the company should be linked to Aadhaar.
Only expenditures incurred after notification of Goa Start-up Policy 2017, being within the validity of this policy and paid for digitally will be considered for reimbursements under this scheme. In case digital payments are not possible then it shall be up to the decision of SPC as per its due diligence to admit the expenditure.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ & + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.

Evaluation Process
Step 1: On receipt of the complete application, the SPC shall inspect and verify the contents of the application. Based on the received documents, SPC will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence on the expenses incurred.
Step 2: The SPC shall recommend the application for the sanction of reimbursement of the costs.

Notification
The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC.
Documents Required
Copy of Aadhaar Card of Directors*
Copy of Aadhaar Card of Relevant Employees*
HR Letter Certifying That Employment Contracts of Employees Fulfill Conditions Mentioned in the Policy Regarding the Period of Contract and Work Profile*
Contract of Employment (Should Be of at Least 12 Months for a Technical Work Profile)*
Salary Slips of Concerned Employees*
Bank Certification/bank Account Statement Showing Debit of Salary*
The Form and Documents as Mentioned in Annexure 1*
