Coir Vikas Yojana- Export Market Promotion Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
CoirCoir BoardEntrepreneurExportExporterMSMEPromotion
Details
Coir Board is implementing the Central Sector Scheme “Export Market Promotion Scheme” with a view to improving the export performance of the Indian Coir Sector through various export market promotion activities such as sponsoring delegations, participation in seminars and conferences, organizing participation in international fairs, undertaking generic publicity abroad, extending financial assistance to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Exporters, presenting Coir Industry Awards on an annual basis to recognize the outstanding performance in the areas of export, domestic trade, R&D, functioning of units & societies etc. The programmes are implemented in accordance with the approved Export Market Promotion Guidelines. 

Benefits
Delegation, Consultancy & Information Sourcing
Participation in International seminars and conferences and organizing capacity-building programmes in export-related areas 
Participation in international fairs/product promotion programmes, catalogue shows and organizing exclusive international fairs and buyer-seller meets for coir
Publicity abroad
External Market Development Assistance
Coir Industry Awards
Financial assistance includes assistance for participation in International Exhibitions/Trade Fairs/Buyer seller Meets held in foreign countries:
100% of the space rent subject to a maximum of ₹1.00 lakh or actual rent paid in the case of foreign countries, whichever is lower per exporter/enterprise.
100% of the economy class airfare subject to a maximum of ₹1.50 lakh/ and ₹1 Lakh in India or actual fare paid, whichever is lower to one representative of the exporter.
Freight charges- Actual subject to a maximum of ₹25,000/- in foreign countries and ₹20,000/- in India- per exporter/enterprise.
Eligibility
Manufacturers, Entrepreneurs, and Exporters of Coir are eligible to apply under the scheme.
Exporters and micro, small & medium enterprises of coir and coir products should be registered with the Coir Board, and would be eligible for assistance under the scheme, provided they have not availed the facility from any other source for the same purpose.
The Enterprise/exporter shall not have been charged/debarred/ prosecuted/ blacklisted under the Foreign Trade Policy of the Government of India or by the Coir Board.
Note: If any other financial assistance has been received from the Coir Board for the same purpose, the assistance already received will be deducted from the eligible amount of assistance and the balance alone shall be paid.
Application Process
Online
Export Market Promotion Scheme has Two Parts:
1. Exporter & RCMC Registration
2. Export Market Development Assistance (EMDA) 
The applicant may fill up the Online Application through the Board online.
Exporter & RCMC Registration:
Stage 1 - New Login Registration:
Step 01: Click on the link "New Login Registration" in the Login.
Step 02: Enter Name, PAN Number, email, and Mobile Phone Number as per the format given on the screen
Step 03: PAN number, email, and Mobile Phone Number once entered cannot be changed later in the application form.
Step 04: Now, the applicant should select a secret question from the drop-down menu and then type the answer in the next Column.
Step 05: Applicant should now choose your User Name (Please refer to the User Name Policy provided).
Step 06: Enter the Given Security PIN displayed on the screen.
Step 07: Applicant can now finalize the above details by clicking the CONFIRM Button. Please note that the email ID, as well as the Mobile Number provided, should be that of your own as all correspondences in the future will be through email and SMS.
Step 08: Applicant will receive your username and password by email as well as by SMS.
Stage-2 Login to the Portal:
Step 01: In the login section of the login page, type your username and password received through email/SMS and click "Sign In"
Step 02: Immediately applicant will be asked to change your password. Here applicant should set a new password as per the password policy of the site and confirm. Applicants will be automatically asked to re-login with new credentials.
Step 03: After successful login, Applicant will be redirected to your Home Page.
Stage -3 Submit Online Application
Step 01: From The Left side Menu, Expand the Menu item +Registration
Step 02: Further Expand the Menu item + Exporter and Select the Link - Registration
Step 03: Give All the Details and Submit the Form
Step 04: For RCMC Registration Repeat the same steps by selecting the + RCMC Menu Item and -Registration Link
Step 05: Give all the details and submit the Application for RCMC.
Step 06: Take the Print Out of Exporter Registration and RCMC Registration submitted application form from the Portal, and send it to Coir Board along with the Demand draft.
Application status:
Applicants can check and verify the status of the application on the website by login to your Home Page with their Username and Password.
Beneficiary/Applicant should visit respective home pages of www.coirservices.gov.in for the latest developments against your application.
Export Market Development Assistance (EMDA): 
Stage 1 - New Login Registration
The applicant may follow the same steps as for Exporter & RCMC Registration.
Stage-2 Login to the Portal
The applicant may follow the same steps as for Exporter & RCMC Registration.
Stage-3 Submit Beneficiary Registration (Part - A)
Step 01: An Application for EMDA contains two Parts. Part -A consists of common details related to the beneficiary and is called the Beneficiary Registration form. PART-A is common to All Coir Beneficiary schemes.
Step 02: Expand the link +Beneficiary Registration by clicking on the + symbol, the applicant will get the link Registration Part-A
Step 03: After completing Beneficiary registration (Part-A), the beneficiary will get a beneficiary registration Number.
Stage-3: Submit EMDA Application
Step 01: Expand the Link +Export Market Development Assistance by clicking the mouse on the + symbol,
Step 02: Applicant will get the Link - Online application
Step 03: Fill up the Details and submit the Form.
Step 04: Applicant can check Application status at any time by Login to your Home Page and Select the Application Status Link under the + Export Market Development Assistance Menu Item
Stage -4: Submit Claim
Step 01: If the Application is approved by the Coir Board, the applicant can submit the Claim details as soon as the applicant comes back from the Exhibition.
Step 02: Under the EMDA Menu Select the Submit Claim link and fill in the details and submit the claim.
Documents Required
MSME Registration Certificate 
Details of Registration under Coir Board 
A copy of IE Code
A copy of the Signed Purchase Order, if applicable
A bank Certificate showing the financial status of your account
A copy of PAN Card - Both Side
A copy of the SSI Certificate/ Coir Board Industrial Establishment Certificate
A copy of the Partnership deed - Self Attested
A Limited Company (Memorandum Article of Association)
An Affidavit/Declaration in your Company letterhead for submitting the export details to the Coir Board every month without fail
Any other document, as required
