Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Awas Navinikarn Yojna
Haryana
AwasBackward ClassesBelow Poverty LineHaryana DomicileScheduled Caste
Details
The Haryana government launched the BR Ambedkar Awas Navinikaran Yojana to assist the backward classes of the State by providing funds for home repairs. Under this scheme, the government will sanction up to Rs 80,000 to the beneficiaries to repair their old houses. However, the scheme is only applicable for the Scheduled Castes (SCs), De-notified Tribes, and Tapriwas Caste. This is a G2C service. Only on-line applications on https://saralharyana.gov.in/ are accepted under this scheme.
Applicants can also apply for the Dr Ambedkar Navinikaran Yojana offline by attaining the application form from their Tehsil/Welfare Department. The applicant must fill the form with the desired information along with the detailed repair quotation from the contractor. Once every detail is provided, it should be attested and submitted to the Tehsil/Welfare Department.
The following conditions of eligibility for this scheme are as follow:
The applicant should be been person amongst Scheduled Castes.
The applicant should have a plot of 50 sq.yard in rural areas and 35 sq.yard in urban areas.
The applicants should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicants should be included under the Below Poverty Line family list.
The applicant must have a bank account to receive the money.

To apply for this Scheme, the applicant must have the required documents which are as follow:
Ration Card
Voter ID
Aadhar Card
Caste Certificate
Land Certificate
Income Certificate
Estimated repair cost
Photocopy of bank’s passbook

Benefits
The exact sum given by the government will be determined after a professional contractor's inspection, the minimum financial assistance offered is Rs 50,000, and it ranges up to Rs 80,000.
Eligibility
The applicant should be been person amongst Scheduled Castes.
The applicant should have a plot of 50 sq.yard in rural areas and 35 sq.yard in urban areas.
The applicants should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicants should be included under the Below Poverty Line family list.
The applicant must have a bank account to receive the money.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website - https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 2: Click on the ‘Register Here’ button and provide necessary details, including full name, email address, and mobile number.
Step 3: Once registered, you will be redirected to the Antyodaya - Saral Portal. Here, click on the ‘Apply for Services’ button. Search for the scheme, and click on ‘Housing Scheme for SC and Denotified Tribes, Dr BR Ambedkar’.
Step 4: On the ‘Dr Ambedkar Navinikaran Yojana Application Form’, enter all the requested details, including category, name, address, bank details, and BPL ID. Moreover, you have to upload scanned copies of BPL proof and SC certificate. Enter the captcha code and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Step 5: You can check your entered details on the next page and edit it if anything is incorrect. If the information is correct, click on the ‘Attach Annexure’ button.
Step 6: Upload proof of residence, Aadhar linked bank account copy, plot registry copy, and press the ‘Save Annexure’ button.
Step 7: Review the application and click on the ‘Make Payment’ button. You need to make a nominal payment of Rs 10 to submit the application.
Step 8: After making the payment, you will receive a receipt which should be submitted to the concerned District/Tehsil Welfare Department.

You can track the application through the same portal or by sending this message- SARAL<space><Application ID/Ticket No.> to 7738299899.
Documents Required
Parivar Pehchan Patra(PPP).
Reservation Certificate if any.
Caste Certificate if belong to SC & BC.
Haryana Residence certificate
Aadhaar linked bank passbook with photo.
Aadhaar card is required.
Land proof.
Photo of House with owner.
Estimates of repair.
BPL Ration card of both side.
