RMEWF-Financial Assistance To 100% Disabled Child Of Ex-Servicemen
Ministry Of Defence
Differently AbledEx-ServicemenWidow Of Ex-Servicemen
Details
A scheme to provide financial assistance to Ex-Servicemen or their widows for their 100% disabled child.

Ex-Servicemen or their widows, up to the ranks of Junior Commissioned Officer(JCO)/equivalent of the Navy/Air Force and below, who are not in receipt of such benefit from  any official agency can apply under this scheme.

Benefits
A financial assistance of Rs.3000/- per month (paid annually) per child is provided to eligible Ex-Servicemen or their widows.
The financial assistance is non-transferable and will cease automatically upon death of the child.
Eligibility
The following criteria must be fulfilled:-

Child must be a legitimate offspring of ESM/Widow.
ESM should be of the rank of JCO/equivalent of the Navy/Air Force and below.
The child should be 100% disabled.
Should not be in receipt of any disability benefit from any official agency.
Should be recommended by respective Zila Sainik Board (ZSB).
Application Process
Online
Eligible Ex-servicemen / their widows can visit the official website of Kendriya Sainik Board Secretariat (KSBS) https://ksb.gov.in/
Click on “Register” which is available on the homepage of the portal.
Now, the registration form will be displayed, fill the form with necessary details.
Upload the Photo
Save the application by clicking on the “Save” button and the saved details and password will be forwarded to the registered mail id.
Click the activation link which is sent to the mail id to login into the KSB portal.
Provide user name, password and verification code and click on the “Login “ button.
Select the scheme name and start filling the new application form by entering the required details.
Copies of the supporting documents duly attested by the respective Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must be uploaded with the online application.
Once the online application is submitted, ZSWO will scrutinize the online applications and give appointment to the applicant for verification, 
After successful verification, ZWSO will recommend the online application and forward the harp copy as well soft copy to Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) through Rajya Sainik Boards (RSBs) for further processing.

Processing at KSB Secretariat

Once the application reaches the Kendriya Sainik Board, the Section-in-charge verify the same and upload the printed list for the approval of JD (Welfare). 
Such applications of approval is then moved for sanction of the competent authority in one lot, preferably every quarter


Payment Procedure

After the submitted application has been approved, the same is processed for payment of the grant in batches of 200 applications by the Welfare department.

After verifying the service number, name, bankers, IFS Code and account number, the Welfare department forward the batch list to Accounts Section for payment, which make the payment directly via Electronic Clearing System (ECS) or by an account payee cheque.

Subsequent Grant

For the continuation of grant in the next financial year, Life Certificate and “Disability Certificate” in the Government prescribed format need to be submitted every year through the respective ZSB on or before 15th January.
In the cases of renewal Application is automatically forwarded to the Welfare department by 1st March. And then, the welfare department ask for sanction of a grant from the Kendriya Sainik Board for the continuation of the financial assistance during the next fiscal year.

Track Application Status
Applicant has to revisit the same portal https://ksb.gov.in/index.htm 
Click on “Status of application” link on the homepage of the portal.
Now enter your DAK ID and verification code. Click on the “Search” button.
Documents Required
Copies of the following documents duly attested by Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must accompany the application:-

Photocopy of Discharge Book (must have entry regarding child).
Ex-Servicemen and Dependent Identity Card issued by ZSB.
100% disability certificate issued by Military / Govt hospital.
Details of Bank A/c No (in PNB/SBI only) and IFS Code.
