Co-Working Space/ Incubators/ Accelerators Subsidy Scheme
Goa
AcceleratorBusinessEntrepreneurIncubatorStartupSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Co-Working Space/ Incubators/ Accelerators Subsidy Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. Through this scheme, the startups will be reimbursed a fixed amount for the seats occupied by them at co-working spaces/ incubators/ accelerators listed by the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC).

Benefits
In the case of Seat Offered by the Co-Working Spaces
The startup will be reimbursed 50% of the seat cost or a maximum benefit of ₹3000 per seat, and can claim this benefit for a maximum cap of 8 seats only.
The benefits at co-working spaces can be availed for a maximum period of two years per startup.
A total of 100 seats in co-working will be subsidized under this scheme each year.
In the case of Seat Offered by the Incubators 
The startup will be reimbursed 50% of the seat cost or a maximum benefit of ₹5000 per seat, and can claim this benefit for a maximum cap of 8 seats only.
The benefits at incubators can be availed for a maximum period of one year per startup.
A total of 50 seats in incubators will be subsidized under this scheme each year.
In the case of Seat Offered by the Accelerators
The startup will be reimbursed 50% of the seat cost or a maximum benefit of ₹6000 per seat, and can claim this benefit for a maximum cap of 8 seats only.
The benefits at accelerators can be availed for a maximum period of three months per startup.
A total of 50 seats in accelerators will be subsidized under this scheme each year.
NOTE 1: For certain deserving startups determined through the internal guidelines of the SPC, the SPC may choose to reimburse up to 100% of the amount paid to co-working, incubator, or accelerator by the startups.
NOTE 2: The reimbursement in this scheme can be claimed on any of the plans offered by the co-working spaces, incubators, or accelerators listed by the SPC.
NOTE 3: Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement.
Eligibility
The startup should be certified by the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC).
All the startups have to pay digitally to co-working spaces/ incubators/ accelerators listed by the SPC. In case digital payments are not possible, then it shall be up to the decision of SPC as per its guidelines to admit the expenditure.
The bank accounts of the startups should be linked to Aadhaar.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ & + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.

Evaluation Process
Step 1: On receipt of the complete application, the SPC shall inspect and verify the contents of the application. Based on the received documents, SPC will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence on the expenses incurred.
Step 2: The SPC shall recommend the application for the sanction of reimbursement of the costs.

Notification
The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC.
Documents Required
Original copy of bill issued by co-working/ incubator/ accelerator*
The form and documents as mentioned in Annexure 1
