Top Class Education For Scheduled Caste Students
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
EducationScheduled CasteScholarshipStudentTuition Fee
Details
A scholarship scheme by Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for Scheduled Caste students pursuing studies beyond class 12th admitted in a full-time course in one of the notified institutions. The total annual family income from all sources must be less than or equal to Rs. 8.00 lakh. The benefit of the Scheme will not be provided to more than 2 siblings in a family.

The scholarship, once awarded, will continue till the completion of the course, subject to satisfactory performance of the student. The students who have studied class X from any of the Central/State/Municipal Govt. or Govt. aided schools (except KVS schools), shall be automatically qualified under the scheme.

Benefits
Payment of Full tuition fee and non-refundable charges (Ceiling of Rs. 2.00 LPA per student for private sector institutions; Ceiling of Rs.3.72 LPA per student for the private sector flying clubs for Commercial Pilot Training and Type Rating Courses)
Living expenses: ₹ 3000/- per month per student.
Books and stationery: ₹ 5000/- per annum per student.
A computer/laptop with accessories (UPS and printer) limited to ₹ 45000/- per student (one-time assistance).
Eligibility
The applicant must be a student.
The applicant must be pursuing studies beyond class 12th admitted in a full-time course in one of the "notified institutions" (refer definition).
The applicant must be from a Scheduled Caste.
The Total Annual Family Income of the applicant must be less than or equal to ₹ 8 Lakh per Annum.
Application Process
Online
Step 1:   Keep ready the soft copies of the required documents.
Go to http://www.scholarships.gov.in/. and click “New Registration”.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory)
Fill the details and click “Register”. 
Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later.
Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application.
Documents Required
Income Certificate.
Domicile Certificate.
Self-attested Degree/Mark Sheet of the last qualifying exam.
Fee Receipt of ‘Current Course Year’.
Bank Details of the applicant or of the Parent/Guardian.
Aadhaar Number.
Bonafide Student Certificate from the school/institute.
Recent colour photograph of the candidate.
Caste certificate (issued by SDM or Tehsildar or any competent authority).
Declaration Certificate (issued by HoD or competent authority of the university or institute).
