SMILE - Comprehensive Rehabilitation For Welfare Of Transgender Persons – Skill Development And Training
Ministry Of Finance
Skill DevelopemntTrainingTransgender
Details
A scheme for Transgender Persons to provide employment opportunities to the person belonging to transgender person community by providing them market-oriented skills.

Objectives

The main purpose is to provide employment opportunities to the person belonging to transgender person community by providing them market-oriented skills. Areas for imparting skill training have been chosen after careful consideration by the training partners and also based on the national consultations done with the Transgender community. The skills so imparted are expected to be a means to provide ample scope for employment with dignity to the transgender beneficiary.

Under this scheme two types of skill development training programmes are provided to transgender persons:
Short Term Training Programmes (200 hours to 600 hours and up to 6 months).
Long Term Training Programmes (5 months and above and usually up-to 1 year) (up to 1000 hours).

Benefits
Free of cost training is provided to trainees. 
Stipend at Rs. 1000 per month per trainee in case of Non-residential training 
Post placement assistance is also provided to the transgender candidate based on achievement of 80% attendance in the skill training programme.
Trainees shall also be provided assistance/facilitated for wage/self-employment by the Training Institutions.

Note
Each candidate shall provide live attendance (80%) which will be a crucial to get stipend and certificate of course completion.
Eligibility
The Transgender persons will be selected as per criteria indicated below:-

 Transgender persons having a valid Transgender certificate & Identity card issued by the National portal for Transgender persons would be automatically eligible to attend the skill development training of their choice on priority.
 The beneficiaries should belong to the Transgender community as notified by the Government of India.
 The Beneficiary shall mandatorily hold a Transgender Certificate issued by the National Portal for Transgender Persons, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment. https://transgender.dosje.gov.in/
 The beneficiaries should not be receiving such benefits from any other Centre/ State scheme.
 There is no income criterion for selection in the skill development programme.
 Transgender persons between the ages of 18-45 years are eligible for undergoing skill development training programmes.
 The skill development training programmes for the target group are free of cost.

Note
Candidates Are Eligible To Undergo Training Under Skill Development Training Programme Only Once And Can Participate Only In One Skill Development Training Programme.
Application Process
Offline
Applicants can login on the National Portal for Transgender Persons (https://transgender.dosje.gov.in/Applicant/Login/Index )using the login credential used to get the Transgender Certificate & Identity card.
The applicant can find the link to apply on their login credentials under the "Skill Training" tab of their dashboard.
Click on “Apply Now”
The transgender candidate has to fill the unique transgender certificate number provided by the National Portal for Transgender Persons along with other basic details.
The candidate has to provide the state & district where the candidate will receive training along with two preferences for the skill development.
Then, Candidate shall provide the details of bank which is Aadhar linked, the name provided in the account holder should be either the given/chosen.
User then can click on “confirm” to get registered in skill and training program.
After successful registration and selection of courses by the candidate as per their interest area, the candidate will be enrolled in the courses for skill development and allotted a batch.
Candidate can now login to their profile using the registered credential to start with their skill training & development
On allotment of the batch the transgender candidate has to go to the training institute & after minimal formalities, Candidate will undergo a psychometric test (The test is used to measure an individual's' mental capabilities and behavior. They are designed to show overall suitability for a particular role based on how one perform. They show personality characteristics and aptitude/cognitive ability.) to assess which programme would be most suitable based on the candidates caliber. 
Passing the psychometric test is a mandatory criteria for the Transgender persons to be enrolled in the course/Batch.
Each candidate shall provide live attendance (80%) which will be a crucial factor to get stipend and certificate of course completion.

How to get Transgender Identity Certificate
For getting transgender certificate one can visit - Home page of the Website Link: http://transgender.dosje.gov.in/
Select “Online Registration” and then click on “Register here”
Type Name, Email ID, contact no., Select state and district from the drop down menu, enter the CAPTCHA text and click on REGISTER.
On the successful registration, the system will send a confirmation with the credentials, by mail.
After this process you are required to login with the credentials that have sent through mail (i.e username/ Email ID, and Password) in the same portal. Enter the CAPTCHA text and click on SIGN IN.
On clicking ‘New application’ you will be redirected to the above mentioned page Here, you can see two category i.e. for New and revised copy at drop down menu.
Select the state and district from the given drop down menu
Enter your Given name and changed name in capital letters
Select name which is to be printed in certificate(Given/Chosen)
Enter your Parent’s name and Contact number.
Select Assigned gender and requested application from the drop-down menu.
Mention your Annual income with Educational qualification
Select your birth date from the box provided
You are required to upload the appropriate document by selecting any one of the documents from the list & Click “Browse” button
The selected file will be uploaded with the image shown in your screen as given above.
On clicking on Add more button you can add more documents with image
After uploading document you can view the same 
You are now required to enter the Permanent address
After clicking on save & next button, the form gets finally submitted.
Documents Required
Transgender Identity Certificate issued through National portal for transgender person of the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment.
