Raman-Charpak Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
CharpakFellowshipFranceRamanStudent
Details
The “Raman-Charpak Fellowship Programme” is in honour of two Nobel Laureates in Physics, Prof C.V. Raman, Indian Nobel Laureate (1930) and Prof Georges Charpak, French Nobel Laureate (1992). The Fellowship was launched during the State visit of the President of France to India in February 2013. The aim is to facilitate the exchange of doctoral students between the two countries, in order to broaden the scope and depth of future engagements in Science, Technology and Innovation.
         This programme implemented by the Indo-French Centre for Promotion of Advanced Research/ Centre Franco-Indien pour la Promotion de la Recherche Avancée (IFCPAR/CEFIPRA) aims at improving the doctoral skills of Indian and French students by providing them with  an opportunity to carry out part of their research work in a University / Research & Development Institute based in France or India respectively. This programme is now also open to French Master Students, who wish to spend some time in India following their curriculum. It aims at improving the Master's skills of French students by providing them an opportunity to carry out internship work in a University/Research Institute based in India. 
Target Group:
This fellowship programme is dedicated to highly qualified PhD students registered in an Indian or French Research Institute/University and Master Students from France. The programme offers them an excellent opportunity to carry out a part of their respective PhD/Masters’ research project in each other countries and to further establish professional relationships, promote new S&T cooperation, and experience another cultural context.
Duration of Fellowship:
The duration of the Fellowship will be for a period of two to six months.
Areas covered under the Fellowship:
• Atmospheric Sciences
• Earth Sciences and Environmental Sciences
• Materials Sciences
• Physical Sciences
• Chemical Sciences
• Engineering Sciences
• Biological Sciences
• Life and Medical Sciences
• Mathematical and Computational Sciences

Benefits
To and fro air ticket in economy class between India and France.
Insurance coverage (travel & health) wherever is required & Carte de Sejour (if any).
Any administrative costs for Visa and Registration (if any).
Support for attending conferences/seminars/workshops during the stay.
Value of Fellowship for Indian Fellow:
Fellowship Support of 1500 Euros per month for daily expenses, local travel, accommodation charges plus Social Security charges.
Value of Fellowship for French Fellow:
Fellowship support ₹40,000/- per month for daily expenses, local travel, etc. plus accommodation charges not exceeding ₹45,000/- per month.
Eligibility
Applicants from India must be Indian citizens residing in India and have registered for a PhD in a recognized university or research institution in India.
Applicants from France must be residing in France and have registered for a PhD/Master’s Degree in a recognized university or research institution in France.
Maximum age 30 years as of 1st April of the call year.
Students once supported by CEFIPRA and students who have a permanent position in institutions/universities are not eligible.
Pre-authorization or prior consent from his/her Institute/University to apply for a foreign fellowship program.
Application Process
Online
The eligible candidates need to register and apply at www.cefipra.org or log on to: http://www.cefipra.org/proposal/index.aspx 
Note 01: The application opens during April/May and closes during June/July.
Note 02: If the application is successfully submitted, the candidate should not apply again.
Note 03: Applications received through post or submitted after the deadline will not be considered for evaluation.
Documents Required
A CV (maximum up to 2 pages) with a recent photograph including a summary of achievements and research interests, a list of relevant publications (maximum 5 most important ones), etc.
A letter of recommendation from the Ph.D. supervisor/ head of the Program
Letter of Recommendation from Host supervisor
Research experience letter or publications as proof (first author or co-author)
No objection certificate from the Head of the Institution
Scanned copy of highest degree certificate
Scanned copy of PhD registration letter/Proof of registration in License or Master
A scanned copy of the VALID Passport (both front and back)
A recent photograph
Detailed description of the Research Plan/Proposal/ Research/ Educational Proposal (maximum up to 5 pages), the title and the research work plan, an explanation of the expected benefit from his/her stay in the proposed Research Institute / University in France / India, etc.
