Payroll Subsidy
Tamil Nadu
BusinessEnterpriseMSMEProvident FundReimbursement
Details
The scheme "Payroll Subsidy" by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, is introduced with the objective of assisting MSMEs in reducing their employee cost. The scheme provides reimbursement of employee's contributions to the EPF for their employees for the first three years from the date of commencement of commercial production, subject to a maximum of ₹ 24,000/- per employee per annum.

Benefits
Reimbursement of employee's contribution to the EPF for their employees for the first three years from the date of commencement of commercial production, subject to a maximum of ₹ 24,000/- per employee per annum.
Eligibility
All micro enterprises anywhere in the state of Tamil Nadu.
Small and medium enterprises set up in 254 industrially backward blocks and all industrial estates promoted by the Government and the Government agencies like SIPCOT, TANSIDCO etc.
Agro-based small and medium enterprises set up in all 388 blocks of the state.
The unit should have employed more than 20 persons. Only regular workers will be taken into account. Casual, temporary or contract workers will not be taken into account.
If the employee strength falls below 20 for any of the months, the claim will be restricted to the months in which the conditions are satisfied.

Check Your Eligibility for this scheme here
Application Process
Online

Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu. In the top ribbon, click "Login / Registration".
In the registration form, fill in the mandatory details accurately, Name, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Number, Email ID, and Mobile Number. Create a new password. The password must contain a minimum of 8 characters, 1 Upper Case Letter, 1 Lower Case Letter, and 1 Numeric Field.
Fill in the captcha code, and click "Register".

Step 2: Login
Visit the Login Page and click "Login", and then fill in the credentials received on your registered Email ID and the registered Mobile Number.

Step 3: Form Filling
After successfully logging in, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click on the concerned scheme from the dropdown.
On the next page, hover over "Apply Online" in the top ribbon, and then click on "New Application" from the dropdown.
Fill in all the mandatory fields of the Application Form. Carefully review all the information provided, acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy, and then click "Proceed".
Note down the reference number appearing on the screen and then click "Close".

Step 4: Upload Documents
Now, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click "Upload Documents" from the dropdown.
On the next page, provide the Application ID and click "Submit".
On the next page, upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size.
After uploading the documents, click "View" to verify the documents uploaded for correctness.

Step 5: Submission
Fill in all the checkboxes appearing at the bottom of the screen and then click "Submit Application".
The message regarding the submission of the online application to GM/DIC / RJD will be received on your mobile phone.

(Optional) Step 6: Track Application Status
You can check the status of your application here. The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.

Time Limit for Filing Application
Within 3 months after the completion of the financial year for the claim of the previous year.
Documents Required
Copy of UDYAM Registration Certificate.
Attested Copy of TANGEDCO Meter Card.
If the Enterprise is functioning in its own land, Copy of the Land Purchase Deed, duly signed by the applicant.
If the Enterprise is functioning in a leased land/building, Copy of the Lease Agreement Deed executed on stamp paper of ₹ 100/-, for a minimum period of 11 months from the date of commencement of commercial production.
Copy of Machinery Invoice.
Copy of First Sale Invoice raised after the Commencement of Commercial Production.
Copy of Returns filed under the Employees Provident Fund 1952.
Copy of NOC [No Objection Certificate].
Copy of Tax Receipt.
*The file type should be PDF (.pdf). The file size should be less than 200 kb.
