Karkhandar Scheme For Development Of Craft Sector
Jammu and Kashmir
EmploymentEntrepreneurSkillTraining
Details
A training and skilling upgradation scheme by the Department of Industries & Commerce and implemented by the Directorate of Handicraft & Handloom, Government of Jammu & Kashmir wherein passout meritorious trainees and ex-trainees from departmental training centers are identified and are provided skill upgradation training in crafts which are facing human resource crunch as well as in languishing crafts. Registered Karkhanas/Karkhandars are identified who are willing to enroll a batch of trainees and ex-trainees in their Karkhana. A minimum of five trainees for a small Karkhana and a maximum of 10 trainees for a big Karkhana. A minimum of one and a maximum of five training programs per craft shall be considered for the six-month duration of the training program.

Objectives of the Scheme:
1.  Revive the languishing crafts.
2.  Upscale the learning techniques of trainees. 
3.  Improve the wage earnings of the craftsmen by leading them into collectivization
4.  Create linkages with producer organizations to inculcate entrepreneurship skills and aptitude in the trainees.

Vision of the scheme:
The artisans who form the backbone of the craft sector work in an exploitative chain of business leading them to a vicious cycle of poverty and pessimism. A huge number of artisans (mostly the male folk) are forced to abandon the craft activity due to low wage earnings and poor socio-economic status. It is felt that this scheme shall emerge as one of the most effective pathways to address the challenges being faced by the artisan community. Exposing the pass-out trainees to improved productivity procedures adopted by producer groups can lead them to better productivity and leverage their collective skill up-gradation which can help in promoting sustainable livelihoods as the artisans can gain direct access to customized production, new design development, technology-related modifications, and above all can have the pulse of market demands.

Benefits
Financial assistance to Trainees:
Rate of stipend per trainee/ per month:- ₹2000/- (₹1000/- shall be paid through an individual bank account and the rest of the amount shall be disbursed on the successful completion of probation/ practical training session).
The trainees are facilitated in the opening of Bank accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY).

Financial assistance to the Karkhandar (Trainer):
Logistic Charges/Honorarium to Trainer/Karkhandar: ₹ 2000/- per trainee per month. (A minimum of five trainees for an identified small Karkhana and a maximum of 10 trainees for an identified big Karkhana.)
The Karkhandar is provided a lump sum of ₹25,000/- per batch as expenditure on account of all the logistics needed for running the training program successfully, i.e. tools, equipment, looms, raw material, space, etc.
The amount shall be disbursed in two installments:
1st installment at the commencement of the training program
2nd installment on successful completion of the training program.

Note: 
The honorarium to Karkhandars shall be disbursed only after assessing that the desired level of skills is achieved by the trainee and trainees shall be evaluated through an approved qualifying framework devised for skill up-gradation level.
The disbursement shall be through DBT mode only.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a pass-out trainee/ex-trainee from a departmental training center.
The departmental training center must be run by the Handicrafts & Handloom Department.
The applicant must have an Aadhaar linked Bank Account.
Application Process
Offline
Take print of the format of the application form and the Affidavit provided in Annexure-A & Annexure-B of the scheme guidelines:
http://www.jkindustriescommerce.nic.in/Orders%202021/161%20IND%20OF%202021.pdf

Duly fill and sign the Application Form and the Affidavit, attach the self-attested copies of the supporting documents along with a passport-size photograph, and submit the same to the given address:

Directorate of Handicrafts & Handloom 
Govt . of Jammu & Kashmir
J.L.N. Udyog Bhavan, Railhead Complex, Panama Chowk
Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir - 180 016

NOTE: 
The physical copy of the format of the application form & the Affidavit can also be obtained from the Directorate of Handicrafts and Handloom.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number
Bank Details
Domicile Certificate
Proof of Identity
Proof of Age/DOB
Proof reg. Latest Educational Qualification
Proof of Training(s) Received (if any)
Registration Card (Handicrafts & Handloom Department, Govt. of Jammu & Kashmir) (if registered)
Supporting documents regarding the number of wholesalers/ retailers/ exporters/ e-commerce portals with whom market linkages have been established by the Karkhandar
