RMEWF-Financial Assistance For Vocational Training Of Widows Of Ex-Servicemen
Ministry Of Defence
GrantVocational TrainingWidows Of Ex-Servicemen
Details
A scheme to provide financial assistance to a widow od Ex-Servicemen to settle in life through vocational training.


Depending on their educational level and aptitude, they may opt to undergo the requisite vocational training. Such a course may be pursued at any recognized vocational training institution run by Rajya Sainik Board/Zonal Sainik Board, state like ITI or private training institutions of repute like NIIT etc.

Benefits
A financial assistance of Rs.20,000/- (max- one time aid ) is provided to widows of Ex-Servicemen on successful completion of said vocational training.
Eligibility
The following criteria must be fulfilled:-

Applicant must be widow of an ESM of rank up to Havildar/equiv.
Should have successfully completed said training.
Should be recommended by respective Zila Sainik Board (ZSB).
Application Process
Online
Eligible Ex-servicemen / their widows can visit the official website of Kendriya Sainik Board Secretariat (KSBS) https://ksb.gov.in/ 
Click on “Register” which is available on the homepage of the portal.
Now, the registration form will be displayed, fill the form with necessary details.
Upload the Photo
Save the application by clicking on the “Save” button and the saved details and password will be forwarded to the registered mail id.
Click the activation link which is sent to the mail id to login into the KSB portal.
Provide user name, password and verification code and click on the “Login “ button.
Select the scheme name and start filling the new application form by entering the required details.
Copies of the supporting documents duly attested by the respective Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must be uploaded with the online application.
Once the online application is submitted, ZSWO will scrutinize the online applications and give appointment to the applicant for verification, 
After successful verification, ZWSO will recommend the online application and forward the harp copy as well soft copy to Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) through Rajya Sainik Boards (RSBs) for further processing.


Processing at KSB Secretariat

Once the application reaches the Kendriya Sainik Board, the Section-in-charge verify the same and upload the printed list for the approval of JD (Welfare). 
Such applications of approval is then moved for sanction of the competent authority in one lot, preferably every quarter.


Payment Procedure

After the submitted application has been approved, the same is processed for payment by the Welfare department.
After verifying the service number, name, bankers, IFS Code and account number, the Welfare department forward the batch list to Accounts Section for payment, which make the payment directly via Electronic Clearing System (ECS).

Track Application Status
Applicant has to revisit the same portal https://ksb.gov.in/index.htm 
Click on “Status of application” link on the homepage of the portal.
Now enter your DAK ID and verification code. Click on the “Search” button
Documents Required
Copies of following documents duly attested by ZSWO must accompany the application:-

Complete Service Discharge Certificate/Book.
Copy of Widow I-Card.
Certificate from institute after completion of training.
Certificate from ZSWO that widow after vocational training is gainfully employed.
Details of Bank A/c No (in PNB/SBI only) and IFS Code.
