Emeritus Fellowship
Ministry of Education
FellowshipResearch & TeachingTeacher
Details
The scheme provides an opportunity to superannuated teachers to pursue active research in their respective
field of specialization in Indian Universities/Colleges/ Institutions as indicated below:
Universities/Institutions/Colleges under section 2(f) and 12(b) of UGC Act, 1956.
Deemed to be Universities under section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956 which are eligible to receive grant in aid from UGC.
Universities/Institutions/Colleges funded by Central/ State Govt.
Institutes of National Importance.


The number of slots available under the scheme is 100 for Science streams and 100 for Humanities, Social Sciences and Languages (total 200 slots) at any one given time basis.

Joining of Fellowship
The candidate should join the fellowship within 3 months from the date of issue of Award letter, failing which the award will be treated as cancelled. 

Feedback
Emeritus Fellow under the Emeritus Fellowship Scheme of UGC the beneficiary will have to submit a feed back in form of the report on the Research work done.
After completion of the Research work, the Emeritus Fellow will submit his/her research work in the INFILIBNET Centre repository along with the research paper published by the end of the tenure must be submitted. The fellow will be issued an Emeritus Fellowship Completion Certificate after successfully submitting comprehensive report of research work and publication in INFLIBNET repository.

Transfer of the Research Place
Transfer of the Research Place should be done by concerned University/College/Institute under the intimation to UGC and designated agency. Transfer of Research place will be allowed only once during the entire tenure

Resignation
Resignation of the Emeritus Fellow will be forwarded by the concerned University/College/Institute to the designated agency under intimation to UGC office. The grant will be released up to the date of resignation tendered by the fellow.

Benefits
The assistance available under the scheme is:

Honorarium of Rs. 31,000/- p.m. for two years (non-extendable)
Contingency grant (non-lapsable) of Rs. 50,000/- p.a. towards secretarial assistance, travel within the country connected with the research project, stationery, postage, consumables, books and journals and equipment. However, books, journals and equipment etc. procured out of the contingency grant will be the property of the university/college/institute.
Foreign visit in connection with the approved research work of the awardee will be limited to once in a year with the prior approval/no-objection of the Institution/University where the project work is being undertaken along with that of UGC. This will be further subject to no financial liability on the part of UGC.
The expenditure would be accounted for audit by the university department concerned like any other departmental expenditure. The Emeritus Fellow would be entitled to such other privileges including medical facilities as available to the university faculty members, but not housing.
Eligibility
Target Group
Highly qualified and experienced, superannuated teachers of recognized universities/ colleges/institutions.

Eligibility 
The eligibility will be based on the quality of research and published work contributed by the teacher in his/her service career. 
The awardee (superannuated) can work under this scheme with a well defined time bound action plan up to the age of 70 years or up to two years (non-extendable) of the award whichever is earlier. 
No extension under the scheme is admissible and hence the proposal should be well defined with a time bound action plan so that it is completed within the prescribed tenure. 
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through on line mode once in a year through advertisement in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded in the UGC website.

To apply for this fellowship, the applicant should follow steps as mentioned:

Firstly open the Official Website of UGC - https://www.ugc.ac.in/ 
Go to Scholarships/Fellowships column
Click on the apply online option
Fill the registration form
Complete the registration by filling username ID and password
Attach all the required documents
Click on the submit option

Note:
Candidates have to apply strictly as per the instructions given in the online portal. Incomplete application will not be considered.
Candidates applying for Emeritus Fellowship must upload the Undertaking Certificate (https://emeritus.ugc.ac.in/Downloads/Emeritus%20Fellowship-Undertaking-Form.pdf) from the proposed research centre duly signed by the HOD and Registrar/Principal/Director of the University/College/Institute as per Annexure-I.
In case of multiple applications, the latest will be considered


Selection Procedure
Emeritus Fellowship is awarded on the basis of recommendation of the Expert Committee constituted by the Commission for the purpose. The applicant should not be holding any other post or be gainfully employed anywhere at the time of joining the Emeritus Fellowship Award. The award is subject to UGC guidelines and will be effective from 1st April of the selection year or the actual date of joining in the University/College/Institute, whichever is later.
The Commission reserves the right to withdraw/cancel the award without assigning any reason.


Procedure for Release of Grants
The fellowship amount shall be disbursed through UGC designated Bank into the bank account of the awardee directly. The list of designated branches of UGC identified bank is available on the UGC portal.
The awardee is required to approach the designated branch along with a Copy of the Award Letter and Joining Report with photograph, address and contact number in the prescribed proforma Annexure-II. The awardee is also required to submit the following documents to the designated branch of the UGC designated Bank at the stipulated period interval. 
The approved Agency may verify the genuineness of records before disbursal of funds.

At the end of every three months a 'Continuation Certificate' in the prescribed proforma. Annexure-III. This will make the awardee eligible to draw the fellowship for the next three months.
After completion of one year of the award of fellowship, the concerned fellow/awardee shall submit and present the abstract of its Progress Report in about 1000 words.
The Fellow/awardee shall also submit and present accounts of contingency grants in the proforma prescribed by the UGC as given in Annexure-IV.
LINK FOR ANNEXURES - https://ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/7605981_revised-final-Emeritus-Fellowship.pdf?_gl=1*1dh6ej8*_ga*MTUxMDg2ODgzNS4xNjYxNDI3MDI5*_ga_FGHYECNLXB*MTY2MTQyNzAyOS4xLjEuMTY2MTQyNzA2OS4wLjAuMA..
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Undertaking Certificate https://emeritus.ugc.ac.in/Downloads/Emeritus%20Fellowship-Undertaking-Form.pdf
Copy of the Award Letter and Joining Report with photograph, address and contact number
Continuation Certificate
Form for submitting accounts of contingency grants and the Utilization certificate
