Delhi Ladli Scheme
Delhi
Financial AssistanceGirl ChildSocial Welfare
Details
Delhi Ladli Scheme was launched by the Department of Women & Children Development, Government of the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi on 1st January 2008 to empower girl children born in Delhi. The State Bank Life Insurance Co. Ltd. (SBIL) is the scheme's Fund Manager. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided in the form of term deposits: ₹ 11,000/- if born in a hospital or ₹ 10,000/- if delivered at home at the time of registration, and ₹ 5,000/- each in further five milestones i.e., Class 1st, 6th, 9th, 11th, 12th.

Objectives - 
To empower the girl child socially and economically.
To promote birth registration of girl child.
To control female foeticide and to improve the sex ratio.
To end discrimination against the girl child.
To promote education among girls and reduce the school drop-out rate of girl students.
To provide security to girl students for their higher education.

Benefits
Financial assistance is provided in the form of term deposits sanctioned at the following stages:

Stage of Financial Assistance Amount (in ₹)
1. For Institutional Delivery: 11,000/- (provided the girl is born in the last year)
2. For Delivery at Home: 10,000/- (provided the girl is born in the last year)
3. On admission in Class 1st: 5,000/-
4. On admission in Class 6th: 5,000/-
5. On admission in Class 9th: 5,000/-
6. On passing Class 10th: 5,000/-
7. On admission in Class 12th: 5,000/-

The maturity amount at the end of the lock-in period will vary depending on the stage at which each girl child enters the scheme and registers under it.
Eligibility
The girl should be born in Delhi as shown by the birth certificate issued by the Registrar (Births & Deaths), MCD/NDMC.
The applicant must be a bonafide resident of the National Capital Territory of Delhi for at least three years preceding the date of birth of the girl child.
Annual family income should not exceed ₹ 1,00,000.
If a girl is school-going, her school must be recognized by Delhi Govt. / MCD / NDMC.
The benefit of the scheme is limited to two surviving girls per family.
Application Process
Offline
The prescribed application form can be obtained from the respective District Women and Child Development Officer, WCD, Govt. of Delhi, or from the Govt. Recognized Schools. Delhi Ladli Yojna Application Form can even be downloaded in PDF format through the link given here – http://www.wcddel.in/pdf/LadliFormOct2015.pdf

The applicant can submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the required documents to the concerned District Office. In the case of the school-going girl within 90 days of admission of the girl and in the case of newly born girls within a year of the birth, the form must be submitted.
Documents Required
Three years of residence proof in Delhi prior to registration.
Income Certificate/Affidavit showing the annual income of the family.
Birth certificate of the girl child issued by the Registrar of MCD/NDMC.
Group photo of parents with the girl child.
Caste certificate in case of SC/ST/OBC.
Copy of the Aadhar Card of the parents and the child, if available.
