Scheme For Working Women Hostel
Ministry of Women and Child Development
Day CareHostelWomen AccomodationWorking Women
Details
A scheme to promote accommodation for working women, with day care facility for their children, wherever possible, in urban, semi urban, or even rural areas where employment opportunity for women exist.

Working women, women under training for job may also be accommodated. Particular preference may be given to women from disadvantaged sections of the society. There are also provision for reservation of seats for physically challenged beneficiaries.


Rent
For Single BED Rooms – Maximum 15% of total gross salary
For Double Bed Rooms – Maximum 10% of total gross salary
For Dormitories – Maximum 7.5 % of total gross salary
For Availing Day Care Centre facilities for children – Maximum 5% of the mothers’ gross salary or, the actual expenditure whichever is less. 

The rent does not include use of the mess and other facilities like washing machines for which user charges should be collected.


For women Under Training
The rent for women under training for job shall not exceed the rent to be charged from the working women. 
The rent for such trainees may be charged from the institution/ organization sponsoring the training or from the woman herself. 


Tenure of Stay
No working woman is allowed to stay in a hostel, assisted under this scheme for more than 3 years. In exceptional circumstances, the District Administration may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow working women to stay in a hostel, beyond the 3 year period, subject to the condition that the period of extension, shall not exceed 6 months at one time, and that the total stay of the woman, with extensions, shall not exceed 5 years.

Benefits
Safe and secure Hostel Facilities to working women or women under going job Training
Girls up to the age of 18 years and boys up to the age of 5 years, accompanying working mothers will be provided accommodation, with their mothers.
Working mothers may also avail of the services of the Day Care Centre
Eligibility
Following categories of working women and their children are being covered under this Scheme:

Working women, who may be single, widowed, divorced, separated, married but whose husband or immediate family does not reside in the same city/area. Particular preference may be given to women from disadvantaged sections of the society. There should be also provision for reservation of seats for physically challenged beneficiaries.


Women who are under training for job provided the total training period does not exceed one year. This is only on the condition that there is vacancy available after accommodating working women. The number of women under training for job should not exceed 30% of the total capacity.


Girls up to the age of 18 years and boys up to the age of 5 years, accompanying working mothers will be provided accommodation, with their mothers. Working mothers may also avail of the services of the Day Care Centre, as provided under the scheme.


Income Limit, Rent and Period of Stay
Working Women are entitled to hostel facilities provided their gross income does not exceed Rs. 50,000/- consolidated (gross) per month in metropolitan cities, or Rs 35,000/- consolidated (gross) per month, in any other place. When the income of any working woman already residing in a hostel exceeds the prescribed limits, she will be required to vacate the hostel within a period of six months of crossing the income ceiling.
Application Process
Offline
Women can check the list of Hostels for working women through the given link- https://wcd.nic.in/sites/default/files/wwhlistdtd09112012.pdf
Then they can physically visit the respective hostel of choice.
Once, she meet all criteria of the scheme, she need to fill form with personnel details, family details, Income details, employment details etc.
Once form is filled, required documents need to be attached with the form and submitted to hostel committee. 
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card ,
Proof of Address - Passport/ Passport Verification , Driving License , Voter ID Card , Water Bill/ Connection , Electricity Bill , Telephone Bill , Registration of Vehicles , Land Valuation/ Holding/ Record Certificate , post office/bank passbook , Photo Identity Card having address (of Central Govt./PSU or State Govt./PSU only)
Income Certificate 
