Jal Jeevan Mission
Ministry Of Jal Shakti
Household TapRural HouseholdWater Supply
Details
The programme will also implement source sustainability measures as mandatory elements, such as recharge and reuse through grey water management, water conservation, rainwater harvesting. 

The Jal Jeevan Mission will be based on a community approach to water and will include extensive Information, Education and communication as a key component of the mission.

Objectives:
The broad objectives of the Mission are to provide FHTC to every rural household, schools, anganwadi centres, GP buildings, health centres, wellness centres and community buildings and to monitor FHTC; 
To prioritize provision of FHTCs in quality affected areas, villages in drought-prone and desert areas, Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) villages, etc.; 
To promote and ensure voluntary ownership among local community by way of contribution in cash, kind and/ or labour and voluntary labour (shramdaan); 
To assist in ensuring the sustainability of water supply system, i.e. water source, water supply infrastructure, and funds for regular O&M; 
To empower and develop human resource in the sector such that the demands of construction, plumbing, electrical, water quality management, water treatment, catchment protection, O&M, etc. are taken care of in short and long term; and to bring awareness on various aspects and significance of safe drinking water and involvement of stakeholders in manner that make water everyone's business.

Benefits
Functional household tap connection(FHTC) to households, Schools, Anganwadi centres, GP buildings, Health centres, wellness centres and community buildings. (Priority in quality affected areas, villages in drought prone and desert areas)

The scheme shall provide FHTC in every household with three delivery points (taps), viz. kitchen, washing & bathing area and toilet, to keep water clean and prevent misuse. 
Out of the three, only one tap per household will be funded under JJM.

Other Benefits:
Monitoring functionality of tap connections.
Promotion and ensure voluntary ownership among local community by way of contribution in cash, kind and/ or labour and voluntary labour (shramdaan)
Assistance in ensuring sustainability of water supply system, i.e. water source, water supply infrastructure, and funds for regular O&M
Empowering and development of human resource in the sector such that the demands of construction, plumbing, electrical, water quality management, water treatment, catchment protection, O&M, etc. are taken care of in short and long term
Awareness on various aspects and significance of safe drinking water and involvement of stakeholders in manner that make water everyone's busine
Eligibility
This scheme is applicable to all households in rural India.
Application Process
Offline
The applicant need not apply for the scheme.

State Governments/ UT Administration will implement the mission based on the finalized SAP with timelines to cover all the villages of the respective State/ UT. Each village will be assessed on existing water supply infrastructure by DWSM in consultation with Gram Panchayat and/ or its sub-committee and ISA. Based on the same, FHTCs will be provided to every rural household by creating in-village water supply infrastructure including source development under any one of the following suggested categories, viz.
Retrofitting of ongoing schemes taken up under erstwhile NRDWP for the last mile connectivity;
Retrofitting of completed rural water supply schemes to make it JJM compliant;
Single Village Scheme (SVS) in villages having adequate groundwater/ spring water/ local or surface water source of prescribed quality;
Single Village Scheme (SVS) in villages having adequate groundwater that needs treatment;
Multi Village Scheme (MVS) with water grids/ regional water supply scheme; and
Mini solar power-based piped water supply in isolated/ tribal hamlets.
Documents Required
Any proof of identity like Voter ID / Passport / Driving License / Ration Card / Aadhaar Card etc. is sufficient to apply for water connection
