The Artist Welfare Fund Of Assam
Assam
AccidentArtistCultureEducationFinancial AsisstanceMedical Aid
Details
The scheme "The Artist Welfare Fund of Assam" is a scheme of financial asssistance by the Assam State Film (Finance and Development) Corporation, Department of Cultural Affairs, Govt. of Assam. The scheme extednds to the whole of Assam. 

The Major Objectives of the Fund are:
1. To help the Artists (or their dependents) who are in financial distress due to old age or otherwise handicapped from accident or disease.
2. Medical aid to such Artists and their dependents.
3. Education for such Artists and their dependents (to be limited up two children) 
4. Assistance to such Artist in case of accidents, medical emergency etc.
5. 'Dependent' means and includes: Spouse of a deceased Artist; Minor sons and daughters; Unmarried and non-earning daughters; Parents wholly dependent on the Artist.

Benefits
Limit of Financial Grant for various disease

1. Cancer: ₹ 50,000.00
2. Kidney Transplant or Total Kidney Failure: ₹ 50,000.00
3. Heart Pacemaker / Bypass: ₹ 20,000.00
4. Death: To be decided by the Board
5. Disability due to Accident: To be decided by the Board
6. Others
Eligibility
1. The applicant must be and artist in the field of art and culture of the State.
2. The applicant must be above the age of 20 years (in case of applicant being the artist).
3. The applicant should be in distress.
4. The applicant should have a made a mark or made some achievement in the field of art and culture.
5. The applicant should be able to provide artistic credentials supporting his/her achievement.
Application Process
Offline
The candidate must apply in the standard application form available in the website and send it to the office of Assam State Film (Finance & Development) Corporation Ltd (ASFFDC), Shilpgram Road, near Sankardev Kalakshetra, Panjabari, Guwahati-37.
Documents Required
Self-Attested Copies of the Following Documents:

1.  A Recent (not older than six months) Clear & Colored Passport Sized Photograph
2.  Aadhaar Card
3.  Proof of Identity
4.  Proof of Residence of Assam (any one of the following): Passport; Driving License; Electricity Bill; Landline Telephone or Broadband Connection Bill; Water Bill; Consumer Gas Connection Card or Book or Piped Gas Bill; Bank Account Statement; Domicile Certificate Issued by the Government; Passport of the Spouse; Post Office Pass Book Having Address of the Applicant; Property Registration Document; Elector’s Photo Identity Card.
5.  Proof of Age / DOB (any one of the following): Aadhaar Card issued by UIDAI; PAN Card; Elector’s photo identity card; Passport; Driving License; Birth Certificate issued by the Municipal Authority or any office authorized to issue Birth and Death Certificate by the Registrar of Birth and Deaths; Marriage certificate issued by Registrar of Marriages; Matriculation/10thclass certificate or mark sheet of recognized Board.
Proofs & Details related to achievements in the field of Arts
6.  Details of Award/Distinction/Honour conferred on the Artiste
7.  Proof reg. the Medical Ailment (Medical Certificate)
8.  Income Certificate
9.  Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account
