State Pre-metric Scholarship For Disabled
Maharashtra
Persons With DisabilityPre-MatricScholarshipSchoolStudent
Details
The "State Pre-metric Scholarship for Disabled" is a scheme by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. The objective of this scheme is to encourage students with disability (SwDs) to pursue education. Only citizens who are permanent residents of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply for this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra.

Benefits
Class: 1st to 4th
Rate of Scholarship (₹ per month): 100/-

Class: 5th to 7th
Rate of Scholarship (₹ per month): 150/-

Class: 8th to 10th
Rate of Scholarship (₹ per month): 200/-

Class: Mentally Retarded and Mentally Ill (up to the age of 18 years)
Rate of Scholarship (₹ per month): 150/-

Class: For disabled trainees in the workshop
Rate of Scholarship (₹ per month): 300/-
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Maharashtra.
The applicant should be a student admitted/enrolled in a school recognized by the Govt. of Maharashtra.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (Visually Handicapped, Low Vision, Hearing Impaired, Orthopedically Handicapped, etc).
The percentage of the disability should be 40% or above.
The applicant should not have failed in the last qualifying examination.
The applicant should be pursuing a pre-metric qualification, i.e. Class 1st to Class 10th.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority at your school/college.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at your school/college.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the concerned authority at your school/college.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
2-Passport Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State of Maharashtra.
Disability Certificate.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Proof of the Latest Educational Qualification (Passing Certificate or Marksheet).
Bonafide Certificate from the School/College.
Proof of Pursuance of a Pre-Matric Qualification (Fee Receipt, etc).
Any other document required by the School/College or the District Social Welfare Office.
