Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Hostel Maintenance Allowance
Maharashtra
Dr. Panjabrao DeshmukhEducationHostel AllowanceMaharashtra SchemeStudent Scheme
Details
The Panjabrao Deshmukh Scheme is a welfare scheme launched by the Government of Maharashtra to provide financial assistance to students from economically weaker sections of the society who are pursuing higher education. The scheme provides financial assistance to students for their tuition fees, examination fees, and other related expenses.

The objective of this scheme is to encourage and support students from economically weaker sections of the society to pursue higher education and to help them achieve their career aspirations. The scheme aims to bridge the gap between the economically privileged and underprivileged students and to ensure that every deserving student has equal access to higher education.

Under this scheme, eligible students can apply for financial assistance through the online portal of the scheme. The applicants are required to provide their personal details, academic records, income certificate, and other relevant documents as per the guidelines of the scheme. The applications are then verified and scrutinized by the authorities, and the financial assistance is provided to the eligible students directly to their bank accounts.

Overall, the Panjabrao Deshmukh Scheme is an important initiative by the Government of Maharashtra towards the goal of inclusive and equitable education. It provides a much-needed financial support system for students from economically weaker sections of the society, thereby helping them to achieve their educational goals and aspirations.

Benefits
1. Hostel maintenance allowance for students with annual income less than 8,00,000: Rs.3000 per year for Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, and Aurangabad and Rs.2000 per year for other locations. (for 10 months in an academic year).
2. Hostel maintenance allowance for students whose parents are Aplabhudharak shetkari/Registered Labourers: Rs.30,000 per year for Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, and Aurangabad and Rs.20,000 per year for other locations(for 10 months in an academic year).
Eligibility
Eligibility Criteria: (As per the GR Dated 07th Oct 2017, 22nd Feb 2018 , 01st March 2018, 18th June 2018 ) 
a) Applicant should have Nationality of India. 
b) Candidate should be Domicile of Maharashtra State.
c) Applicant should be ”Bonafide Student of Institute” and admitted for Professional and Technical course (Diploma / Graduation / Post Graduation Degree) as mentioned in GR 
d) Deemed University and Private university is not applicable 
e) Candidate should be admitted through Centralized Admission Process (CAP). 
f) Applicant should not avail any other scholarship/stipend. 
g) For current Academic Year, Only 2 child from family are allowed for benefit of scheme. 
h) The Total Annual Income of Family / Guardian should not be more than 8 Lakhs. 
i) Minimum 50 % attendance in previous semester (Exception for fresh admitted in College). j) During course duration, candidate should not have a gap of 2 or more than 2 years.
Application Process
Online
1. Go to https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/SchemeData/SchemeData?str=E9DDFA703C38E51AA5337B52CE309785
2. Click on New Applicant Registratio : Create account if your are new candidate by entering name, mobile number and password
3. Click on Applicant Login : Fill the details username and password
4. Click on Find eligible scheme by entering details like religion, caste, annual income, department as Directorate of Medical Education Research and disability type and apply for Dr, Panjabrao Deshmukh Hostel Maintanance Allowance.
Documents Required
1. Domicile Certificate
2. New applicants need to submit HSC and SSC mark sheet
3. Income certificate of Parents.
4. Previous year's mark sheet.
5. Affidavit
6. Registered Labourers/aplabhudarak shetkari need to submit a proof letter approved from the tahsildar /Income certificate of Parents.
7. Aadhaar card
8. Student's PAN card (optional)
9. Father's PAN card
10.Mother's PAN card (optional)
