Nekar Samman Yojana
Karnataka
Financial AssistanceHandloomNekar Samman
Details
Details
Karnataka Nekar Samman Yojana: In 2020 amidst the Covid pandemic, CM B.S Yediyurappa, the then Chief Minister of Karnataka launched a mega scheme Karnataka Nekar Samman Yojana. It was a relief scheme to provide financial support to the destitute weaver of the state engaged in the handloom and textile industry whose livelihood was adversely affected by the pandemic. To save their interests and provide assistance during tough times, the state government launched the scheme and transferred monetary support to their bank accounts.
The scheme was one of the important parts of the Rs.1610 crore Covid Relief Package released by the Karnataka Government in the year 2020. It was launched by the then CM of the state on 6th July 2020 in Bengaluru. In the first phase, a total of 19,744 weaver beneficiaries benefitted under the scheme. The scheme has been launched to assist and support the poor weavers (both handloom and power loom) engaged in the handloom and textile industry.
The beneficiaries under the scheme are provided yearly assistance of Rs.2000. the amount is transferred to their registered bank accounts through DBT mode. With this scheme, the state government extends its assistance to the destitute weavers in improving their livelihood and promoting their businesses. The scheme also works for protecting the interests of workers engaged in these small textile and handloom businesses in the state. The implementation of the scheme was carried out by the Department of Handlooms and Textiles, Government. of Karnataka.  
The assistance under this scheme is provided only to the weavers who are successfully registered in the Seva Sindhu portal of the state. For the year 2023, the registration and application details are yet to be released. As soon as any updates regarding the same will be released we will intimate our readers through this post. To get more insight into the Nekar Samman Yojana of the Karnataka Government, one can have a look at this article. Here is everything you need to know about the Karnataka Nekar Samman Yojana.

Benefits
Benefits
The assistance of Rs.2000/- is transferred to the beneficiaries through the mode of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode
Financial assistance to registered handloom weavers under the “Nekara Samman Yojana” has been increased from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 as per the budget for 2022-23. 
Eligibility
Eligibility
The beneficiary must be a resident of Karnataka. They must have a valid resident certificate.
All the weavers and financially distressed workers engaged in the handloom/ power loom industry and ancillary activities such as cotton, wool, and silk in the state are eligible.  
Prospective beneficiaries must have an active bank account.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
First Applicant needs to go to the official website of the Government of Karnataka.
Then choose Covid-related services and signup.
Fill out the Nekar Samman Yojane online registration form and submit it to get the plan benefits.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Aadhaar Card
Ration Card
Proof of Resident
Bank Account details
Income Details
Photograph
Mobile Number
Other requisite details
