YSR Jala Kala
Andhra Pradesh
AgricultureFarmer
Details
The scheme "YSR Jala Kala" is one of the 'NAVARATNALU' schemes by the Department of Rural Development, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. In this program, bore wells are drilled free of cost to the needy and eligible farmers in all thirteen districts of the state. NAVARATNALU is a concept coined to improve the delivery systems and improve the living standards of the people, and the quality of the governance in the state. Of the welfare schemes under NAVARATNALU, “YSR Jala Kala" is aimed at utilizing the available groundwater resources for the improvement of the livelihoods of the farmers and thereby improving the GSDP under the primary sector.  This shall help in optimally utilizing groundwater resources for the purpose of irrigating every acre of arable land. These bore wells shall be drilled after conducting integrated Hydrogeological and Geophysical surveys in the field for identifying feasible sites before taking up the drilling activity.

Benefits
Drilling of the Borewells: A drilled borewell with a minimum yield of 1000 GPH (4500 liters per hour) by 900 ‘V’ notch method.
In case, the bore well fails, the drilling contractor shall drill the second bore well in the land of the same farmer, if feasible, and refill the failed bore well with soil and stone pieces before shifting the rig or utilizing that as a recharge well.
Construction of Recharge Pit / Water Harvesting Structure.
A social Audit will be conducted for all the borewells drilled.
The digital photograph with geo-tag (date, time, latitude, and longitude) shall be taken by the concerned authorities deputed along with the beneficiary in the presence of the drilling contractor after completion of borewell drilling,
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Farmer.
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant should be without an existing bore well/tube well OR having a failed bore well/tube well.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The eligible beneficiary shall submit the filled-in application at the Village Secretariat along with a copy of the Required (Self-Attested) Documents. 

Step 2 (Optional): After submitting the application, the farmers can track the status of their application online at any point in time. If farmers have any queries/grievances regarding the implementation of the program, they can post their complaints/queries/grievances online on the www.ysrjalakala.ap.gov.in website and offline through Spandana Toll-Free No. 1902.

Post-Application Processes:
Step 1: The applications shall be scrutinized at Village Secretariat by VRO after field verification and shall be submitted to the Assistant Project Director DWMA/MPDO. 

Step 2: Applications received by the APD, DWMA / MPDO shall be sent to the drilling contractor of the concerned Assembly Constituency for conducting the integrated hydrogeological and geophysical survey.

Feasibility Assessment:
Step 1: The drilling contractor shall engage Geologist/Geophysicist from the Ground Water and Water Audit department/any qualified Geologist/Geophysicist registered with the Ground Water and Water Audit Department for locating the feasible sites in the lands of beneficiaries for drilling bore wells successfully.

Step 2: Selection of feasible sites by the drilling contractor shall be done by adhering to Andhra Pradesh Water, Land and Trees Act,2002 (APWALTA) norms and Government orders from time to time.

Step 3: The details of the feasible sites identified along with respective integrated hydrogeological and geophysical survey reports shall be submitted to APD, DWMA / MPDO by the drilling contractor.

Step 4: Any technical advice regarding the integrated hydrogeological and geophysical surveys can be obtained from the Deputy Director, Ground Water and Water Audit Department of concerned districts if necessary


Sanction of the Scheme:
Step 1: APD, DWMA / MPDO shall generate estimates for the construction of bore wells for each beneficiary after receiving the feasibility reports from the drilling contracts after due verification. APD, DWMA / MPDO shall send the estimates to PD, DWMA. 

Step 2: The Project Director DWMA will verify and send the estimates to the District Collector for according to Administrative Sanction. The District Collector shall accord Administrative Sanction of the scheme to the eligible beneficiaries after due verifications.
Documents Required
Aadhar card
White Ration Card
Application form
First and Second Page of the Land Passbook
Residential proof
Passport size photograph
Mobile number
Caste certificate
