Post Matric Merit Scholarship
Mizoram
DBT SchemeMizoram State SchemePost MatricScholarshipStudents Scheme
Details
The Post Matric Merit Scholarship is a scheme offered by the Government of Mizoram to provide financial assistance to meritorious students belonging to economically weaker sections of the society. The scholarship is aimed at encouraging students to pursue higher education and to reduce the financial burden on their families.

The Post Matric Merit Scholarship in Mizoram is a great opportunity for deserving students who are looking for financial support to continue their education after Matriculation. The scholarship not only provides financial assistance but also encourages students to excel in their academic pursuits.

Benefits
Tuition fees
Maintenance allowance (for boarding and lodging expenses)
Other related expenses like books, stationery, etc.
Eligibility
Only the children/wards or bonafide permanent residents of Mizoram prosecuting regular studies in a recognized Post Matric Institution in India shall be eligible for the award of the Scholarships;
No student found guilty of misconduct or breach of discipline shall be eligible for the scholarship;
 No student who failsl to secure at least 60% marks of first division/ class at the last Board or University examination shall be eligible for the Scholarship ;
Students who after passing one stage of Post Matric Education are studying in the same stage of Education are studying in the same stage of Education in a different subject/faculty shall not be eligible;
 Students who after completing their Educational career in one professional course of study are pursuing a course in a different professional line of the  same level (e.g. Bachelor of Teaching or Bachelor of Education and vice versa) shall not be eligible;
Students pursuing Post- Graduate courses in Medicine will be eligible if they are not allowed to practice during the period of their course;
Candidates who pursue their studies through correspondence Courses shall not be eligible:
 A scholar under these rules should not hold any other scholarship or stipend of higher value. If such scholarship or stipend is awarded, the scholar can exercise option and should inform of the matter to awarding authority through the Principal. No scholarship will be paid to the student under these rules from the date he/ she accepts another scholarship or stipend or higher value.
Application Process
Online
The application process for the Post Matric Merit Scholarship in Mizoram usually begins in the month of August or September. Interested students can apply online through the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) https://scholarships.gov.in/ by submitting the required documents and details.
Documents Required
1) Aadhaar Card.
2) Bank Account (self-account).
3) Previous year examination mark sheet.
4) Permanent Residential Certificate (up to date).
