Financial Assistance for setting up of Ornamental Fish Unit in Goa
Goa
AquacultureFinancial AssistanceFishFishermenSubsidy
Details
“Financial Assistance for setting up of Ornamental Fish Unit in Goa” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, financial assistance is provided to eligible fishermen for setting up Breeding Units and Rearing Units. The applications are accepted only in offline mode.

Benefits
Setting Up of a Breeding Unit: 50% of the actual cost, limited to ₹ 1,50,000/-.
Setting Up of a Rearing Unit: 50% of the actual cost, limited to ₹ 1,50,000/-.
Setting Up of a Rearing Unit & Breeding Unit: 50% of the actual cost, limited to ₹ 2,50,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Fish Farmer/ Individual/ Registered Self Help Group/ Societies, interested in setting up of the Ornamental Fish Farming unit in Goa.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
The applicant should have adequate water facilities for setting up the unit.
The applicant should have own/ leased land, adequate to set up an ornamental unit.
The applicant should have undergone a training programme on Ornamental Fish Farming organized by the Fisheries Department/ MPEDA/ ICAR.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
1. Proof of Identity.
2. Photographs (2 nos.).
3. Documents for the Proof of Availability of Land.
   A. For Owners:
      (i) Copy of the Land Deed.
      (ii) Form 1, Form 14.
   B. For Lessee:
      (i) NOC from the Land Owner.
      (ii) Registered Lease Agreement.
4. Proof of Availability of Finance.
5. Detailed Project Report.
6. Certificate of Experience.
7. Estimate for the Proposed Ornamental Unit/Expenditure Details.
8. Design/Layout of Unit.
9. Mandate Form.
