Internship Scheme Of The Ministry Of Labour & Employment
Ministry Of Labour and Employment
InternshipLabourLawResearchStudent
Details
Through the Internship Scheme, the Ministry of Labour & Employment engage eligible students as “Interns" to work for mutual benefit. The “Interns” shall have an opportunity to know about the Government functioning and Department Policy issues in the Government of India and contribute to the Policy/Legislation formulation by generating policy inputs such as empirical analysis, briefing reports, policy papers, etc.

Duration
The duration of the internship will be from two to six months at different points in time in the year.

Declaration of Secrecy
Interns will be required to furnish to the Ministry of Labour & Employment a declaration of secrecy before reporting for the internship.

Placement
Placement of Interns (total 5 maximum) will be carried out with the approval of the Secretary (L&E), after their engagement, keeping in view their suitability as well as a requirement in the concerned Wing/Division.

Benefits
Stipend
The Interns will be paid a stipend @ ₹ 8,000/- per month for the period of internship on certification from the Officer, which the Intern is attached to.

Logistic Support
Ministry of Labour & Employment shall provide them with working space and computer with internet facility and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned Heads.

Certificate of Internship
Certificates will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their Report/Paper and its evaluation by the concerned.
Eligibility
The applicant should be pursuing law [in the last two years of degree course] or Law Graduates or students pursuing Post Graduation in Law or Research Scholars in Law or pursuing MBA / MSW / MSc / MA enrolled in a recognized University/Institution within India or abroad.
Application Process
Online
The application should be submitted in the prescribed proforma. The duly filled-in and self-attested application form should be sent by email to adm1@nic.in by 31st January / 31st July of the respective year. 
Documents Required
At the time of acceptance of the offer for the internship - 
Self-Attested Marksheet / Certificate.

At the time of joining the internship - 
Letter from the Supervisor/Head of Department/Principal, indicating the status of the applicant in their Institution.
No Objection Certificate (NOC), allowing their student to undergo an Internship program.

At the time of completion of the internship - 
Submission of paper on the allotted subject to the Head of the Division a Report / Paper at the end of the internship.
