"Immediate Relief Assistance" under "Welfare and Relief for Fishermen During Lean Seasons and Natural Calamities Scheme"
Puducherry
FamilyFinancial AssistanceFishermanMissingRelief
Details
The scheme "Immediate Relief Assistance" is a Sub-Component under the scheme "Welfare and Relief for Fishermen During Lean Seasons and Natural Calamities Scheme". The scheme is extended to all the regions of the Union territory of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of extending financial assistance to the fishermen's families to compensate for the loss due to the missing breadwinner and to support them financially to run their family. 

Benefits
₹ 1,00,000, in two installments of ₹ 50,000 each, as immediate relief assistance for the family (legal heir) of the missing fisherman.

Disbursal
Initially, 50% will be extended within 3 months from the date of receipt of the application from the family (legal heir).
The family (legal heir) should approach this department for the release of the balance 50% of the relief which will be deposited in the bank in a joint account in the name of kin (legal heir) and the competent authority concerned.
If no further information is received about the missing person, the balance amount will be released in favour of the next of kin (legal heir), after the prescribed period of 9 months from the date of release of 1st part of lump sum.
*In case of the return of the missing fishermen, the amount extended as compensation either ₹ 50,000 or ₹ 1,00,000 as the case may be, will be recovered by invoking an insurance bond. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be the family (legal heir) of the missing fisherman.
The missing fisherman should have been a resident of the Union territory of Puducherry.
The missing fisherman must have lost his/her life while fishing. 
The missing fisherman must have been in the age group of 18-60 years.
The missing fisherman must not have been a beneficiary of the old age pension scheme. 
The missing fisherman should have enrolled as a member of the Fishermen/Fisherwomen Co-operative Society.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the office of the concerned authority i.e. the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare/Sub-Offices of outlying regions in all four regions.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
*The affected family (legal heir) should apply immediately within 30 days from the date of the event for consideration.
Documents Required
Photograph of the Family (Legal Heir) of the Missing Fisherman.
Residential Certificate of the Missing Fishermen.
Proof of Age of the Missing Fishermen.
Declaration That the Missing Fisherman Was Not a Beneficiary of the Old Age Pension Scheme. 
Membership Certificate from the President/Administrator of Fishermen/Fisherwoman Co-operative Society. 
Electoral Identity Card (Attested Copy)
Ration Card (Attested Copy)
Panchayathar’s Letter of Village Concerned
Name, Relationship, and Address of the Legal Heir (Affidavit in ₹ 5 Stamp Paper, Affixing as the Legal Heir Duly Signed in Before a Notary Public).
‘No Claim’ Certificate in Respect of Financial Assistance Extended by the Revenue Department Should Be Obtained From the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management.
FIR and Non-traceable Certificate From Respective Station House Officer of Police Department.
Statement of Next Kin of Missing Person, Statement of Panchayathars, Statement of Persons Who Have Lastly Seen the Missing Person. 
Advertisement/newspaper Report of the Missing Person in Gazette in Tamil/local Newspaper, Municipality/ Commune Panchayat Office, Ration Shop, and Police Station in the Vernacular Language. 
