Scheme for Grant of Financial Assistance for Administering Road Safety Advocacy and Awards for the Outstanding Work Done in the Field of Road Safety
Ministry Of Road Transport & Highways
AdvocacyAwardCooperative SocietyFinancial AssistanceNGORoad SafetyTrust
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Grant of Financial Assistance for Administering Road Safety Advocacy and Awards for the Outstanding Work Done in the Field of Road Safety” was launched by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Government of India. The objective of the Scheme is to stimulate and encourage opportunities for various agencies through participation, in order to create awareness on road safety. The Scheme will work in alignment with the following objectives of the National Road Safety Policy-
To evolve a shared vision of priorities and strategies in promoting road safety.
To foster cooperative federalism through support initiatives and mechanisms with the States on a continuous basis.
To develop and ensure credible plans for financial assistance to various stakeholders for administering road safety programmes and raising awareness about road safety issues through education, training, and publicity campaigns.
To design strategic, long-term policies, programme, and initiatives, and monitor their progress and their efficacy. The lessons learned through monitoring and feedback will be used for making innovative improvements.
To create a knowledge base through best practices and good governance in sustainable and equitable development.
To facilitate recognition and award to partners for their initiatives and recommendable work in the field of road safety. 

Benefits
The financial assistance to the Applicant Agency shall be provided in Milestone wise or Single Stage as under:
Milestone-wise Payment Structure: Program Duration-120 days and above
Sl. No. Milestone Percentage of approved Grant Payment
1 Mobilization Advance Up to 15% Upon signing the grant agreement by providing a Bank Guarantee of similar amount*
2 Milestone 1 40% Installments shall be paid upon satisfactory completion of pre-defined milestones and submission of expenditure reports and supporting documents.
3 Milestone 2 30% Installments shall be paid upon satisfactory completion of pre-defined milestones and submission of expenditure reports and supporting documents.
4 Milestone 3 30% Installments shall be paid upon satisfactory completion of pre-defined milestones and submission of expenditure reports and supporting documents.
*The mobilization advance will be set off in the next installment upon receipt of the claim against satisfactory completion of activities under 'Milestone-1'. The Bank Guarantee provided shall be returned upon payment against the completion of ‘Milestone -1’.
Single Stage Payment Structure: Program Duration- Less than 120 days
Single Stage: upon successful completion of the program, verification, and submission of expenditure reports and supporting documents.
Note 01: The amount of Financial Assistance/Grant provided to the Applicant Agency shall be decided by the Competent Authority in MoRTH based on the expected outcome and impact of the proposed programme.
Note 02: The maximum financial assistance to an Applicant Agency for a programme shall not be more than double the maximum value of the project executed by the Applicant Agency during the last 3 years.
Scheme for grant of Awards to the Agencies involved in Road safety advocacy and allied activities:
Ministry of Road Transport & Highways shall give three awards (first, second, and third) in each State/UT to the individuals or agencies engaged in road safety advocacy and allied activities to recognize the outstanding work carried out by them. The details of the awards are as follows.
Sl. No. Category Amount
1 1st prize ₹5 Lakhs + Certificate
2 2nd prize ₹2 Lakhs + Certificate
3 3rd prize ₹1 Lakh + Certificate
Reimbursement of TA/DA:
The awards may be received by the Individual or the authorized representative of the selected agency. The outstation winners will be reimbursed a lump sum of INR 25,000/- per person (subject to a maximum of two persons per agency) to meet the costs towards travel and accommodation.
Eligibility
The Applicant Agency shall be an NGO/Trust under the Indian Trusts Act/Cooperative Society under the Societies Registration Act/Firm registered under the Companies Act, 1956/2013 or an Academic Institution accredited/affiliated to or recognized as a University or Deemed University by UGC Act. In case, the Applicant Agency is an NGO, then the Applicant Agency shall be registered on the DARPAN Platform- NITI Aayog and shall provide a Unique ID while submitting the proposal. The Applicant Agency shall comply with the following conditions:
In case the Applicant Agency is NGO/Voluntary organization, the Applicant Agency shall provide documentary evidence (such as a Work Order/Letter of Award/Contract) of undertaking a road safety programme or any other similar activity of an advocacy nature (for grants-in-aid for programme).
The Applicant Agency shall undertake assignment individually or associate with another Applicant Agency to form a JV (Joint Venture), the maximum number of members in the JV shall not exceed two (2). In the case of JV, the members shall appoint a Lead Member and the members agree to the terms and conditions jointly and severally.
Only projects involving road safety activities or involving advocacy/ awareness on any social cause will be considered for arriving at the eligible maximum financial assistance.
The Applicant Agency should have experience in completing at least one (1) road safety or advocacy/awareness-related program in the last three (3) years as of the date of submission of the proposal.
The Applicant Agency should not have been blacklisted or debarred by any State/ Central Government Entities from receiving any funds.
Application Process
Online
Register of NGO/Trust/Cooperative Society/Firm:
Step 01: The Applicant Agency desirous of implementing the road safety programme shall submit the proposal online. 
Step 02: All Applicant Agency who wish to apply may visit Morth NGO Grant Portal. (https://rsa.morth.gov.in/auth/users/login.cshtml)
Step 03: Click on “Register Here”, and fill out the form providing the User and Password, which NGO wish to use for future reference.
Step 04: Further, provide the NGO Darpan ID and PAN Card of the NGO/Trust/Cooperative Society/Firm registered on the NITI Aayog’s Darpan Portal. On providing the above-stated information press the TAB button, this will fetch all the desired details from the NITI Aayog Portal.
Step 05: Every Agency need to verify themselves, by providing OTP generated to Registered Mailing Address
“Email Address”, Please note, don’t press the Generate OTP Button more than once, multiple presses will trigger multiple OTPs, from which the latest one is to be shared. On a single press, an OTP mail will be triggered to the address.
Step 06: The triggered OTP must be provided in the column provided to confirm the registration.
Please note: Mail once triggered might take a few minutes to deliver. Don’t press the Generate OTP button twice or refresh the page.
If there is any uncertainty in the records being fetched from NITI Aayog, please login into the Darpan Portal and make the required changes.
Drafting and submitting Proposal:
Step 01: Login on Portal: Click on the “NGO Login Button”, and provide “User ID” and “Password”.
Step 02: Go to Bank Records and Enter Bank Details. (Provide Bank details of the NGO which is mandatory to fill the form, until the bank details are not provided the application form cannot be submitted.)
Step 03: Go to Road Safety Advocacy and fill out the application form.
Step 04: Once the Proposal is submitted you can trace the status of your request from the “Application Status” Tab. And from the “Home” Tab from the NAV bar.
(User Manual to Apply Grants for Financial Assistance)
The proposals shall be evaluated based on the following criteria:
1. Geographical coverage of the programme
2. Alignment with the themes proposed under the Scheme
3. Past experience of the participating agency in the similar programmes
Note 01: The agency shall work in close coordination with ROs of MoRTH (Road wing, NHAI and NHIDCL). State and District level officials and shall also provide them with regular updates on the progress of the programme.
Note 02: The agency shall publicize the awareness programme/ campaign being carried out in various media and social media platforms for the purpose of assessment of impact.
Note 03: Selected programme shall be publicized on the social media accounts of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.
Note 04: The agency should ensure that coverage of the programme gets highlighted/ published in local newspapers.
Note 05: The agency shall upload monthly progress reports on the MoRTH portal.
Timelines for Receipt of Applications and Completion of the Projects:
The Scheme shall remain in operation till 31.03.2026. As such, it shall not be feasible to release any financial assistance after 31.03.2026 under this Scheme.
The agency will be required to complete the work before 31.12.2025 in order to avail of the full eligible grant amount.
The proposal may be submitted on an ongoing basis, which shall be considered and decided on a monthly basis.
Procedure for Selection of Award to the Agencies involved in Road safety advocacy and allied activities:
The awards shall be given for the calendar year.
The Individuals and Agencies shall file nominations for the award to the Principal Secretary (T)/Transport Commissioner/Transport Secretary of the State/UT Government.
The State Government can also nominate any agency/ individual on its own if it is of the opinion that such an agency/ individual has done commendable work in the field of road safety.
The Transport Department of State/ UT shall recommend the names of a maximum of five Agencies to this Ministry as per the format prescribed in Annexure 'E'.
Date of Awards:
The awards will be given away on a date, time and venue to be decided by the Government of India.
Documents Required
Registration/Incorporation certificate
NGO Registration Certificate issued by respective State
Power of Attorney for Lead Member of Consortium
Self-declaration Affidavit by Authorized Person that the organization has not been blacklisted/defaulted with any India/Foreign Entity
Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements along with Audit Report of the entity, duly certified by a Chartered Accountant (CA)
Certificate from a Chartered Accountant highlighting the value of projects executed in the last 3 years
Work Order/ Letter of Award/ Contract for projects executed in the last 3 years
Self-Declaration affidavit by the Head of the organization on projects executed by them
Detailed Proposal, approach, and methodology to deliver the proposed program
Details on targets for each milestone
Any other relevant documents, if required
