Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana
Odisha
GopabandhuHealth InsuranceJournalistMedical ExpenseSwasthya BimaTreatment
Details
The scheme “Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana” was launched by the Information & Public Relations Department, Government of Odisha. It is a health insurance scheme that covers the medical expenses of the journalists and their eligible family members comprising of spouse and 3 wholly dependent children upto the age of 25 years. The Scheme provides insurance to Working Journalists of Odisha and their family for indoor and outdoor treatments.

Benefits
The scheme provides health insurance coverage to all the working Journalists of the state and their families comprising of spouse & 3 children age up to 25 years.
Insurance coverage of ₹5,00,000/- only shall be provided to the family unit as defined above.
Note: The above limit shall be over & above the insurance coverage if any already taken by the employee.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Journalist.
The applicant should be an Odisha-based journalist working either in Odisha or New Delhi for an Odisha-based newspaper.
The Journalist should be working for a media house registered with the I&PR department, Odisha, New Delhi.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: Visit the official web portal of the Odisha Working Journalist Welfare Scheme Application. i.e. https://owjws.odisha.gov.in/
Step 02: Click on ‘Apply for Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima Yojana’ found on the bottom-left corner of the page.
Step 03: One new page appears ‘Application for Gopabandhu Sambadika Swasthya Bima yojana’.
Step 04: The journalist will have to fill up the ‘Applicant details’, ‘Education details’, ‘Dependent family details’, and ‘Present Workplace’ with relevant document details.
Step 05: Upon successful form submission One application number is generated which a journalist can use for further reference. i.e. for application status.
Step 06: The applicant will receive an SMS in the respective registered mobile number regarding the successful submission of the application.
Step 07: The applicant can login into the application by giving the respective registered mobile number.
Step 08: After giving the mobile number, the journalist will receive an OTP on the mobile number. On successful submission of OTP, the applicant will able to login into the application.
Step 09: On the page, the applicant will be able to view the application status.
Documents Required
Odisha-based journalist:
1. Birth Certificate/ Matric Certificate / Voter Card / PAN card / Passport / DL
2. Aadhaar Card
3. Photograph
4. Accreditation Certificate in case of a freelance journalist.
5. Photocopy of the dependent family member
6. Appointment Letter
7. Employee Identity card
Odisha-based journalist working in New Delhi for an Odisha based newspaper:
1. Photograph
2. Birth Certificate/ Matric Certificate / Voter Card / PAN card / Passport / DL Upload
3. Aadhaar Card
4. Editor recommendation letter
5. Delhi address proof
6. Accreditation Certificate in case of freelance journalist
7. Photocopy of the dependent family member
8. Appointment Letter
9. Employee Identity card
