ICAR Senior Research Fellowship For Post-Graduate Studies In Agricultural Sciences
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgricultureFellowshipResearch
Details
ICAR awards a certain number of Senior Research Fellowships for Ph.D. in an Agricultural University (AU), in different disciplines of agriculture and allied sciences. This is done to encourage talented students to undertake higher agricultural education.

In order to address the emerging challenges of agricultural research and education, the ICAR supports specific time-bound schemes/projects. The schemes/projects generally have provisions for time-bound/non-regular/ contractual engagement of manpower, contingencies, and limited need-based traveling allowance (TA), besides other specifically needed provisions for a particular scheme/project. In supersession of all previous guidelines, the following guidelines are formulated to regulate all aspects relating to engagement, emoluments, and terms and conditions of Senior Research Fellows and Research Associates working in ICAR schemes.

Benefits
Veterinary Sciences: ₹ 12,000/- per month With a contingency grant of ₹ 6,000/- per annum.
All disciplines other than Veterinary Sciences: ₹ 8,640/- per month With a contingency grant of ₹ 6,000/- per annum.

The rates of fellowship and contingency grants for higher studies will be as prescribed by the Council from time to time.
Eligibility
Method of Award
ICAR-SRF (PGS) will be awarded on the basis of merit in the All India Competitive Entrance Examination for - 
(i) ICAR-SRF (PGS), and
(ii) concurrent admission to Master’s degree program at - 
     a) State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), and
    b) Deemed Universities viz. IARI (New Delhi) / IVRI (Izatnagar) / NDRI (Karnal) / CIFE (Mumbai) / AAU (Allahabad), Central Agricultural University (Imphal, Manipur), and 
    c) Central Universities having faculty of agriculture viz. Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Visva Bharti, and Nagaland University, collectively hereinafter referred to as the Agricultural Universities (AUs). 

Eligibility
Candidates having completed their Master’s degree program with a minimum of 55% marks or an OGPA of 5.5/10.00 or 2.75/5.00 or 2.20/4.00 or an equivalent OGPA from any recognized University in India and abroad would be eligible. For SC/ST and Physically Handicapped (PH) candidates, the minimum percentage of marks will be relaxed by 5 percent or an equivalent OGPA. The equivalence of OGPA to percent marks, where needed, will be certified by the Registrar of the concerned University. Candidates appearing in the final semester would also be eligible provided they complete their postgraduate degree in all respects by the date of examination and produce the complete degree certificate from the Registrar to this effect. 
The fellowship would be granted only when the candidate gets eventually admitted and pursues a Ph.D. degree in an Agricultural University(AU) other than the Agricultural University(AU) from where the candidate has completed M.Sc./M.V.Sc./ M.E./M.Tech. degree. 
The upper age limit would be 30 years as of the date of the examination. For SC/ST & PH categories, the upper age limit will be relaxed by 5 years. For OBC the upper age limit will be relaxed by 3 years. For in-service candidates of Agricultural Universities (AU), the upper age limit would be 45 years as of the date of examination whereas, the academic performance requirement would remain as stated above. 

NOTE 1: Reservation of various categories such as SC/ST/OBC and PH etc. will be given as per Government of India rules/instructions issued from time to time. The responsibility of verification of the genuineness of SC/ST/OBC and PH certificates will solely rest with the concerned Agricultural University (AU) where the candidate has been recommended for admission or granted provisional admission.

NOTE 2: The ICAR-SRF (PGS) will NOT be available for admission in any university other than the AUs as mentioned above.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Candidates need to aррly fоr Оnline Registrаtiоn by using a unique Emаil Id аnd Mоbile Nо.
Step 2: Nоw, fill in the neсessаry detаils suсh аs Рersоnаl Detаils, Соntасt Detаils, Асаdemiс Quаlifiсаtiоns, etс.
Step 3: Uрlоаd the required documents like the sсаnned рhоtоgrарh, signаture, аnd thumb imрressiоn аfter filling uр the detаils.
Step 4: Nоw, Раy the Аррliсаtiоn Fees.
Step 5: Аfter filling the аррliсаtiоn fоrm, саndidаtes will get the system generаted Аррliсаtiоn Number.
Step 6: Оn соmрleting the аbоve рrосess аррliсаnts will hаve tо send the hаrd сорy оf the оnline аррliсаtiоn аnd рrооf оf fee раyment tо the СОE (Аgril. Edn.) by роst.

Application Correction
After submitting the application form for ICAR SRF candidates will get a chance to correct their mistakes. The NTA will provide a correction window to edit the application for the last time. With the help of credentials, candidates can update the application form and rectify their mistakes. No further chance will be given to candidates if they fail to correct their application in this window.
Documents Required
Candidates must be ready with the following documents while filling out the Application form.
Candidate’s Photograph (file size: 10 kb - 200 kb)
Candidate’s Signature (file size: 4kb - 30kb)
Thumb impression (file size: 3kb-30kb) 
Govt Identity Details like Aadhaar Number /Election Card (EPIC No.)/Passport number/Ration Card Number/ Bank Account Number/PAN Number/ Other valid Govt Ids.
Three identical copies of the latest passport-size colored photographs (with name and date)
Copy of payment of application fee (As proof)
Post-office receipt as postal dispatch proof of application.
Address for communication, Mobile Number, email id, etc
Bank Account details for payment of Fee, for uploading as part of the submission of the online application.

Note - The Thumb Impression used for filling the Online Application Form for ICAR, should be Left (for Males) and Right (for Females),
