Bal Ashrams
Jammu and Kashmir
DestituteOrphanRehabilitationSecurityShelter
Details
The "Bal Ashrams" have been established by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir, to create a society free from child labor, where all children receive free, compulsory, quality, and meaningful education. Orphans and destitute children are provided free schooling, boarding and lodging, free bedding and clothing, recreational material, and medicines. More than 12 orphanages are established in the private sector in Srinagar. The guardian or the social worker of the eligible boy/girl shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu & Kashmir can apply for this scheme.

Benefits
Free schooling, boarding and lodging, free bedding and clothing, recreational material, and medicines.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a social worker or the guardian of the eligible child.
The child should be an orphan or a destitute.
The child should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Jammu & Kashmir.
The child should not already be availing of the benefits of the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.

Post-Application Processes:
Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant, the DSWO shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The superintendent shall admit/discharge any inmate with the approval of the District Social Welfare Officer concerned and the Deputy Director of Administration, Directorate of Social Welfare Jammu.

Check Application Status:
The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme.
Documents Required
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State/UT of Jammu & Kashmir.
3 Passport-Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Aadhaar Card.
Affidavit of Guardianship (in the case the child has a guardian)
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc) of Self or of the Guardian.
Death Certificate of the Mother and Father (in case the child is an orphan)
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
