Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana: Per Drop More Crop
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgricultureCropFarmerIrrigationWater HarvestingWater Management
Details
The scheme “Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana: Per Drop More Crop” was launched by the Dept. of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India on 1st July 2015. The scheme mainly focuses on enhancing water use efficiency at the farm level through Micro Irrigation (Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation System). Besides, it also supports micro-level water storage, and water conservation/management activities (Other Interventions) to supplement source creation for Micro Irrigation.
Objectives:
Increase the area under micro irrigation technologies to enhance water use efficiency in the country.
Increase the productivity of crops and income of farmers through precision water management.
Promote micro-irrigation technologies in water-intensive/consuming crops like sugarcane, banana, cotton, etc., and give adequate focus to extend the coverage of field crops under micro-irrigation technologies.
Make potential use of micro irrigation systems for promoting fertigation.
Promote micro-irrigation technologies in water-scarce, water-stressed, and critical groundwater blocks/districts.
Link tube-well / river-lift irrigation projects with micro irrigation technologies for the best use of energy both for lifting and pressurized irrigation as far as possible.
Establish convergence and synergy with activities of ongoing programmes and schemes, particularly with created water sources for their potential use, integration of solar energy for pressurized irrigation, etc.
Promote, develop, and disseminate micro irrigation technology for agriculture and horticulture development with modern scientific knowledge.
Create employment opportunities for skilled and unskilled persons, especially unemployed youth for installation and maintenance of micro irrigation systems.
Important Features:
Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) not only focuses on creating water sources for assured irrigation, but it also creating protective irrigation by harnessing rainwater at the micro level through ‘Jal Sanchay’ and ‘Jal Sinchan’. Micro irrigation is an integral component of the scheme to maximize water use efficiency at the farm level.
There are four components to the scheme: Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme (AIBP), Per Drop More Crop (PDMC), Har Khet Ko Pani, and Watershed Development 
Per Drop More Crop: to focus on micro-level storage structures, efficient water conveyance & application, precision irrigation systems, topping up of input cost beyond MGNREGA permissible limits, secondary storage, water lifting devices, extension activities, coordination & management - being implemented by DAC&FW.
Nodal Department: 
Since the final outcome of PMKSY is to ensure access to efficient delivery and application of water at every farm thereby enhancing agricultural production & productivity, State Agriculture Department may be the Nodal Department for implementation of PMKSY (Per Drop More Crop). However, State Govt. is free to identify the nodal department based on the established institutional setup and mandate of the department. All communication between the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) and the State Government would be preferable with and through the nodal department. 
States are free to identify dedicated implementing agencies/departments for the implementation of Per Drop More Crop.

Benefits
Financial assistance to farmers for the installation of irrigation components under Micro Irrigation (all assets/ water sources for this must be mandatorily linked with a Micro Irrigation system to achieve water use efficiency).
Installation of drip or sprinkler irrigation in the farmers’ field for selected crops.
Installation of the irrigation system can be done either by the farmers themselves or by the selection of any approved Micro Irrigation companies.
The pattern of assistance payable to the beneficiary under the micro irrigation scheme will be 55% for small and marginal farmers and 45% for other farmers which will be met by both the Central Government and State Government in the ratio of 60:40 for all states except the North Eastern and Himalayan states. In the case of these states, the ratio of sharing is 90:10. For the Union Territories, the funding pattern is 100% granted by the Central Government.
Direct Benefit Transfer into the accounts of farmers.
Farmers can also avail benefits like water harvesting structures both at individual and community levels, water lifting devices for conveyance efficiency, and digging of a farm pond, under Other Interventions of Per Drop More Crop.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
All the farmers of the State & Union Territory are eligible to take the benefits of this scheme.
The subsidy payable to the beneficiary will be limited to an overall ceiling of 5 hectares per beneficiary.
Note 01: The beneficiary has to purchase only BIS-marked systems/components under the scheme.
Note 02: The scheme is to be implemented through the mechanism of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). Aadhaar details of the beneficiary are required to access the benefit of the programme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The farmers, based on the requirement of their field & region, may contact their Block/District Agriculture Office through their respective Gram Panchayat. Further, the farmer may also contact the Agriculture Officer of their Block/District or call Kisan Call Centre (Toll-Free No. 1800-180-1551).
Step 2: The farmers may approach the concerned authority and request/collect an application form for the scheme.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the designated receiving authority.
Step 5: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the receiving authority.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Bank Account Details
Address proof
Passport size photograph
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Proof of Agriculture land documents
Domicile Certificate of State/UT
