Arundhati Gold Scheme
Assam
ArundhatiFinancial AssistanceGold
Details
Many parts of our country are plagued with social evils surrounding the girl child, like child marriage, female foeticide, dowry etc. But the Assamese society, from time immemorial, is fortunate to be free from such evils. Though there is no dowry system prevalent in Assam, the parent of every girl desires to give something to the girl during her marriage. The parents, irrespective of their social and economic status dream to bestow their children with love, blessings and gifts. But for many, these dreams remain unfulfilled due to their economic weakness. 
Gold is always considered auspicious and an asset. The parents believe that a gift of gold ornament would enhance their daughter’s social and economic status. Objective: The Government of Assam has decided to introduce a New Scheme “ARUNDHATI” from the financial year 2019-20. 
The objective of the scheme is to facilitate the parents of the girl child who are economically not very sound, but like all parents desire to give some gold which is considered auspicious to their as gift daughters on her marriage. The Government desires to share the joy of such parents who are getting their daughters married by way of providing Rs. 40,000/- as a blessing to the daughters of these parents for purchasing Gold. 

Benefits
Benefits
The benefit of this scheme is the transfer of an incentive of rupees 40,000.
But the only rule in this scheme is when the money will be transferred to the bride’s account to incur gold expenditure.
This amount of money cannot be used for any other purpose.
Eligibility
Eligibility
The bride and groom should have attained the legal age of 18 years and 21 years respectively at the time of registration of the marriage.  
The marriage of the applicant should be registered under the Special Marriage Act, of 1954.
The applicant should have solemnised her marriage on or after the 1st of December, 2019.
The applicant should have registered her marriage on or after the 1st of January 2020.
The applicant girl should apply for the benefit under Arundhati Gold Scheme on the same day that she applies for marriage registration. 
The total income of the parents of the applicant girl should be below Rs 5.00 Lakh per annum.
The applicant girl can avail of this benefit for her first marriage only. 
Both the bride and the groom must have passed at least HSLC or equivalent Except Tea Tribe including Adivasi communities of the State. 
No minimum educational qualification is required in the case of Tea Tribe including Adivasi communities for the next five years, as most of the Tea Gardens in the State of Assam do not have High School facility
Application Process
Online
Application Process
The applicant shall apply for Arundhati Gold Scheme on the day of applying for the registration of Marriage under the Special Marriage Act, of 1954.
Filled-up physical application form shall be submitted by the applicant along with the Marriage application in the office of the Marriage officer where the registration of marriage is applied for.
The applicant girl shall also submit an online form for claiming the benefit under the Arundhati Gold scheme. The online application form would be available at the link.
After completing the form the applicant has to submit the same both online by pressing submit button at the end of the form and also taking a printout of the form.
The applicant must take the printout of the form before submission, sign the declaration part of the printed form and submit the same physically along with a copy of all documents listed at Point D above, in the office of the concerned Marriage Registration Officer. The list of Sub Register offices where the application form under the Arundhati Gold Scheme and its enclosures can be submitted is given in Point F of the guidelines.
The applicant shall receive a receipt on submission of her application and required enclosures from the office of the Marriage Registering Officer where the form has been submitted.
The information on acceptance/rejection of the application will be communicated to the applicant by SMS and email (on the Mobile No/ email id given in the online application form).
If the application is accepted, the amount as eligible under the scheme shall be transferred to the Bank account of the applicant by the Inspector General of Registration through Direct Benefits Transfer(DBT) mode. The Bank A/c No shall be the same as per details given in the online form where Bank A/c No. with IFSC code has been given.
Documents Required
Documents required to ascertain the eligibility criteria of the Applicant girl :
Document for proof of age
Other than Tea Tribe and Adivasi Communities - HSLC/CBSE or equivalent pass certificate as proof of age whereby the bride should have attained the legal age of 18 years and the groom shall have attained the age of 21 years respectively.
Tea Tribe including Adivasi Communities - Birth Certificate of both bride and groom issued by notified authority or any academic certificate as proof of age or certificate through medical examination only from competent authority as a proof of age to ascertain the bride and groom have attained the age of 18 years and 21 years at the time of registration of marriage under Special Marriage Act, 1954
The attested copy of the Certificate of Marriage, issued by the Marriage Officer, in the form specified in the fourth schedule of the Special Marriage (Assam) Act, 1954.
The income certificate of the parents of the applicant was issued by the Circle Officer of the area in which she resided permanently with her parents.
Bank Account details of the beneficiary/ copy of the Bank passbook of the beneficiary.
A certificate issued by the Gaonburah/Mouzadar of the village in which the girl resided with her parents before marriage stating that this is the first marriage of the applicant girl.
