Rajasthan Chief Minister's Relief Fund - Medical Help
Rajasthan
HospitalMedical HelpNon BPLRajasthan SchemeRelief Fund
Details
Rajasthan Chief Minister’s Relief Fund – medical help scheme launched on April 1999 under Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in Rajasthan. Dependents of untimely dead due to famine, floods, excessive rains, fires and accidental accidents help.

For treatment information - Assistance is accepted in recognized private hospitals from the major Government/ Chief Minister’s Relief Fund of the state. 40% maximum amount of rs1.50 lakh in government hospitals and 30% maximum amount of Rs 90,000 in recognized private hospitals, whichever is less, is accepted and sent to the concerned hospital. 

Benefits
Demand draft or Direct Bank Transfer to the beneficiary.
Cochlear Implant Surgery of Deaf and Dumb Children - In the state of Rajasthan, deaf and dumb children up to the age of 6 years, whose family income is up to Rs. 2.00 lakh annually,
Assistance for Thalassemia Major Disease Treatment - 2 percent assistance is given from the Chief Minister's Assistance Fund up to Rs. 50.7 lakh
Financial assistance to a person suffering from serious diseases (cancer, kidney and urine, heart disease) do it.
Eligibility
The applicant should be Non BPL
The Annal Income of the Family should be greater than 2 LPA
Not be listed in ABMGRSBY (Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojana)
Application Process
Online
Offline
Visit the official website of the Chief Minister Relief Fund Rajasthan at https://cmrf.rajasthan.gov.in/.
Click on the "Apply for Medical Help" option on the homepage.
You will be directed to a new page where you need to select the "Apply Online" option.
Fill in the required details such as your name, address, contact details, medical condition, and required treatment.
Upload the necessary documents such as medical certificates, doctor's reports, and bills.
Once you have filled in all the details, click on the "Submit" button.
After submitting the application, you will receive an acknowledgment number that you can use to track the status of your application.
Documents Required
Income Certificate Copy* 
Address Proof Copy*
Rashan Card
Treatment Estimate by Doctor
Medical Certificate
