National Agriculture Insurance Scheme
Gujarat
AgricultureFarmerFinancial SupportInsuranceKharif CropsLoansRabi Crops
Details
The National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS/Rashtriya Krishi Bima Yojana) has been under implementation in  Gujarat State since its introduction by the Govt. of India in the Rabi/Summer 1999-2000 season. The main aim of the scheme is to stabilize farmers’ income, particularly in disaster years by providing insurance coverage and to provide financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crops as a result of natural calamities, pests, and diseases.
A total of 26 crops are covered under the scheme as mentioned below:
1. Kharif Crops: Paddy, Bajra, Maize, Ragi, Sorghum, Tur (Arhar), Green Gram. Black Gram, Math, Groundnut, Sesamum, Castor, Cotton and Banana.
2. Rabi- Summer Crops: Irrigated Wheat, Un- Irrigated Wheat, Gram, Rape seed/Mustard, Summer Bajra, Summer Groundnut, Potato, Onion, Garlic, Cumin, Fennel, and Isabgul.
Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd. (AIC) is an implementing agency for NAIS. AIC collects premiums, & calculates, and sanctions the applicable claims, receives the claims share from the concerned Government, and settles the claims through nodal banks.
            The scheme is implemented on an area approach. Taluka is the unit of insurance in the state. The claims under the scheme are calculated on the basis of a reduction in the yield per hectare for that year as compared to the threshold yield based on the average yield per hectare of the last five/three years. The yield per hectare is estimated on the basis of Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) being conducted by the Agriculture Department of State Government.

Benefits
1. Farmers are provided financial support in the event of failure of any of the notified crops as a result of natural calamities, pests, and diseases.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Gujarat State.
The applicant should be a farmer.
All farmers growing the notified crops in the notified areas are eligible for coverage.
The scheme covers the following group of farmers:
      a) On a compulsory basis: All farmers growing notified crops and availing Seasonal Agricultural Operations (SAO)  
          loans from Financial Institutions i.e. Loanee Farmers.
      b) On a voluntary basis: All other farmers growing notified crops (i.e. Non-Loanee farmers) who opt for the Scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The farmers who do not avail of crop loans, can participate in the scheme voluntarily.
Step 2: The farmers need to visit the nearest Nodal Bank of the concerned notified area and collect the application form.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized, and attach all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Submit the application form along with the documents to the concerned Nodal Bank.
Step 5: After successful verification, the farmer can avail benefits of the scheme by paying a premium for notified crop to the Nodal Bank.
Note: Farmers growing notified crops in the notified area and who avail of seasonal agricultural Operation loans (crop loans) from financial institutions are covered compulsorily.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Passport Size Photograph
Residence proof (If Applicable)
Caste certificate (If Applicable)
Basis (evidence) for agricultural land (If applicable)
