Chief Ministergi Artistessingi Tengbang - Assistance To The Cultural Group For Training With New Production
Manipur
ArtistTrainingWorkshop
Details
Manipur is widely known for its varied traditions and culture belonging to different communities that have been passed on from generation to generation through practice and oral traditions. The scheme "Chief Ministergi Artistessingi Tengbang - Assistance to the Cultural Group for Training with New Production" by the Department of Art and Culture, Govt. of Manipur aims at providing financial assistance to registered cultural groups that have been relentlessly working on providing training to the younger generation with new products to enrich the traditions, art forms, and culture.

Benefits
Category (A) (For Registered Groups above 25 Years with a minimum of 15 productions) 
Theatres: Traditional / Modern / Shumang Leela
Dance: Classical / Folk / Tribal Dance
Music: Hindustani / Sankirtana / Folk / Tribal Music 
Visual Arts: Painting / Sculpture / Graphic 
Literature:

Category (B) (For Registered Groups above 3 years and below 25 Years) 
Theatres: Traditional/Modern/Shumang Leela: 
Dance: Classical/Folk/Tribal Dance 
Music: Hindustani/Sankirtana/Folk/Tribal Music 
Visual Arts: Painting / Sculpture / Graphic 
Literature:
Research & Book Publication (For individual)
Training on Instrument Making / Costume Making (For individuals)

Mode of Release of Assistance:
The amount of Assistance will be released to the account of the applicant/organization through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
Eligibility
Only the residents/domiciles of the state of Manipur are eligible to apply to this scheme.

Eligibility: (Category A)
Registered Groups (for all categories mentioned above) should have already made a minimum of 15 remarkable productions in the last 25 years.
Registered Groups (for all categories mentioned above) should have given a performance/show in at least 3 or 4 National Festivals and participated in 3 or 4 State Level Programme.
The applicant group (for all categories mentioned above) should not receive any kind of assistance from any other sources for the same purpose.

Eligibility: (Category B)
Registered Groups (for all categories mentioned above) should have already made a minimum production of their organization as below:
Minimum 5 remarkable productions for the registered group of 3 above 15 years. 
Minimum 6-10 remarkable production for the registered group of 15 above 25 years. 
Registered Groups (for all categories mentioned above) should have given performance/show in at least 3 or 4 State Level or National Level Programme
The applicant group (for all categories mentioned above) should not receive any kind of assistance from any other sources for the same purpose
For Visual Art, Research & Book Publication, and Instrument / Costume Making, individual artists/artists/writers/artisans who have enough knowledge in their respective fields will be eligible. Research & Book Publication should be based on Manipuri culture and also the translation of (a) old manuscripts to modern Manipuri language only (b) the books of other languages on art & culture to Manipuri language which may be used as reference.

Method of Selection:
The selection of artists/groups will be done by a Screening / Selection Committee constituted by the Government. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should take print of the format of the application form 
provided in the scheme guidelines.
Step 2: The applicant should fill in all the mandatory fields and attach all the (self-attested) required documents.
Step 3: The duly filled-in application form should be submitted to the Directorate of Art & Culture, Government of Manipur office at Palace Compound, Imphal along with a cover letter addressed to the Director (Art & Culture) latest by a month before the travel schedule.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph
Aadhaar Card
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address / Domicile Certificate
Detail proposal with an estimated cost
List of Artistes
Bank Account Detail (for Individual / Registered group)
Last 3 years’ Audited Statement of Accounts (for the group)
Utilization Certificate of previous grants / financial assistance
Detailed Report of the Remarkable Productions with supporting documents that qualify the group to apply for CMAT.
Bio Data (for the individual artiste) or Activities Report (for the group) with relevant supporting documents/certificates
Registration Certificate for groups
