Opening And Running Junior Colleges For VJNT Students Run By Voluntary Agencies
Maharashtra
Ashram SchoolEducationJunior CollegeStudentVimukta Jatis And Nomadic Tribes
Details
The Govt. of Maharashtra vide G.R. dated 26/6/2008 has started (11th and 12th class) Junior College education by upgrading the 148 secondary Ashram Schools for educational and social development of Vimukta Jatis and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) students. The scheme “Opening and Running Junior Colleges for VJNT Students Run by Voluntary Agencies” is implemented by the Social Justice and special assistance department in Maharashtra. Under this scheme, the government provides academic educational facilities, free lodging, and boarding in Junior Colleges. It also provides medical facilities, bedding and clothing, and uniforms to residential students. This scheme is implemented on a grant-in-aid basis to voluntary organizations.

Benefits
The facilities like academic education, free lodging, and boarding along with necessary educational goods & stationery are provided to the students of the VJNT category in Junior Colleges.
The facilities like medical, bedding & clothing, and uniforms are provided to the residential students.
Eligibility
Students should be residents of Maharashtra.
Students should belong to VJNT Category.
Voluntary Agency should have running Secondary Ashram School.
The result of Secondary School should not below than 60%.
Voluntary Agencies should be economically sound to run Junior Colleges.
Building, Water supply, Electricity etc. facilities should be available.
Most of Population should be VJNT nearby School place.
There should not be more Junior Colleges around the Ashram School.
There should not be any dispute / Court matter against the Voluntary Agency.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant should contact the Assistant Commissioner of Social Welfare of the concerned District in Maharashtra.
Step 02: The applicant may also contact Head Master of the concerned Ashram School in Maharashtra.
Step 03: Admissions are finalized by the Head Master of the concerned Ashram School Head Master.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card
Applicant's domicile certificate
Caste/category certificate
