Vivah Sahayata Yojana
Jharkhand
Financial AssistanceMarriageSocial Welfare
Details
"Vivah Sahayata Yojana" is a scheme by the Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development Govt of Jharkhand. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme. Only the residents/domicile of the state of Jharkhand can apply to this scheme. Applications for this scheme are accepted online through the official website of the department. The scheme provides financial assistance of ₹ 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand Only) rupees for the marriage of two children / female members of the family.

Benefits
The scheme provides financial assistance of ₹ 30,000/- (Rupees Thirty Thousand Only) rupees for the marriage of two children / female members of the family.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a domicile in the state of Jharkhand.
The applicant should be a Worker registered with the 'Jharkhand Building and Other Construction Worker Welfare Board (JBOCWW Board)'.The applicant should be between 18-60 years of age.
The applicant should be engaged in construction work such as masons, carpenters, electricians, porters, painters, etc.
The registered worker should have made continuous contributions for five years. 
The bride should be at least 18 years of age. 
The groom should be at least 21 years of age.
The scheme is applicable for up to two children / female members of the family.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official website of Comprehensive Labour Management System for Factory Establishment / Worker Registration / Inspection / Management & Grievance Redressal; Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development; Govt. of Jharkhand.
Step 2: At the top right corner, click "Login". On the pop-up screen, click "Register Here".
Step 3: On the next page, a Registration Form will appear. Provide the following mandatory details: First Name, Last Name, Email, and Mobile. Create a Username and a Password. Confirm the Password. Fill in the Captcha Code. Click "Register". Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via One Time Password (OTP). Upon successful verification of the OTP, your registration will be successful. The Login Credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID and Mobile Number.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official website of Comprehensive Labour Management System for Factory Establishment / Worker Registration / Inspection / Management & Grievance Redressal; Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development; Govt. of Jharkhand.
Step 2: At the top right corner, click "Login". Fill in your Username and Password. Click "Login".
Step 3: In the ribbon, click "Services > BOC Scheme Benefit > Application Form. On the next page, the "Scheme Benefit Form" (Application Form) will open. 
a)   In the "Basic Details" section, fill in the mandatory fields (fields ending with a red asterisk mark): BOC Registration Number, Applicant's Name, Applicant's Father's Name / Husband's Name, Applicant's Date of Birth, Applicant's Aadhaar Number, District, Sex.
b)   In the "Select Scheme" section, select the scheme from the list that you wish to apply for.
c)   In the "Upload Section", upload the mandatory documents (those ending with a red asterisk mark) in the specified file size and file type.
Step 4: Finally, click on "Submit Request" to submit your application. On the next page, your "Application ID" will be displayed, confirming the successful submission of the application. Please note down this Application ID for future reference. The Application ID will also be sent to your registered Email ID.

Check Application Status: 
Step 1: Once submitted, the application goes for 3-level approval: Clerk > Labour Superintendent > DLC.
Step 2: Go to Services > BOC Scheme Benefit > Application Status.
Step 3: On the next page, fill in your Application ID, and click "Search". The status of your application will be displayed in a tabular format: Application ID, Applicant Name, Scheme Applied, Application Status, Remarks, Date, and Time. 
Step 4: Once the DLC approves the application, the "Application Status" changes to "Approved". The Applicant can take print of this page by clicking “PRINT” and submit the same at the Labour Office to avail of the scheme benefit.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of the Registered Worker
Aadhaar Card of the Bride and the Groom
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate
Proof of Identity
eSHRAM Card
Passport Sized Photograph
Proof of Registration as a Construction Worker
Details of the Bank Account of the Registered Worker
Income Certificate of the Registered Worker
Marriage Certificate
Proof of Age of the Bride and the Groom
