Assistance Scheme For Reimbursement For Expenditure On Visa By Construction Workers For Employment Abroad
Rajasthan
AbroadAssistanceConstruction WorkerEmploymentVISA
Details
The Reimbursement of Expenditure Incurred on Visa for Employment Abroad to Construction Workers is a scheme implemented in the state of Rajasthan to provide financial assistance to construction workers who are seeking employment abroad. Under this scheme, registered construction workers in Rajasthan who have secured employment in foreign countries are eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred on obtaining the necessary visa and related documentation. 

To be eligible for this scheme, the construction worker must be registered with the Construction Workers Welfare Board in Rajasthan and provide proof of employment in a foreign country. The aim of this scheme is to reduce the financial burden on construction workers who are seeking employment abroad by providing financial support for expenses related to obtaining visas, which can often be a significant expense. This scheme aims to promote the welfare of construction workers and support them in their efforts to secure employment opportunities abroad.

Benefits
Under this scheme, registered construction workers in Rajasthan who have secured employment in foreign countries are eligible for reimbursement of expenses incurred on obtaining the necessary visa and related documentation. 
Under this scheme, a maximum amount of Rs.5000/- will be reimbursed from the circle level to the eligible beneficiary for reimbursement of the expenditure incurred for visa for the purpose of employment abroad.
Eligibility
 1. Applicant should be a resident of Rajasthan State.
 2.Applicant should be registered as Construction Worker under labor laws.

Other Conditions
 1. For getting contract employment abroad, it is necessary to take permission for migration from the office of Protectors of Emigrants (POE) under the Migrant Act, 1983.
 2. Registration of the recruiting agency under the Overseas Act or a valid permit from the POE office is necessary.
 3. Reimbursement of visa amount under the above scheme will be payable on the beneficiary passport having a minimum validity of 6 months including valid visa.
 4. Under the scheme, the benefit of assistance amount will be payable to the beneficiary only once.
 5. During scrutiny of application and documents, if any facts found to be false resulting in the cancellation of eligibility, it will be the responsibility of the concerned beneficiary to deposit all the assistance amount sanctioned under the scheme along with interest.              
 6. The benefit of this scheme will be payable only if the beneficiary is employed abroad, is in the building and other construction works.
Application Process
Online
The application will have to be submitted online by the beneficiary on the Board's online portal www.ldms.rajasthan.gov.in in the prescribed form.
Time period for submission of application - After the date of publication of the notification, the registered beneficiary will have to submit the application within a maximum period of 3 months after obtaining a valid visa as per rules.
The approval under the scheme will be issued after the senior most officer of the local labor office or other officer authorized by the divisional secretary, test and complete satisfaction.
The assistance amount will be transferred through electronic means (RTGS / NEFT) to the candidate's bank account under the central banking system.
Documents Required
1. Copy of the beneficiary registration identity card.
2. Copy of the beneficiary Aadhaar card and Jan Aadhaar card.
3. The first page of the beneficiary savings bank account passbook (which contains the name of the candidate, bank account number and IFS code to be mentioned).
4. Copy of passport with visa.
5. Copy of the employment contract issued by the foreign employer.
6. Proof of amount deposited for Visa / Invoice / Invoice.
7. Registration number of the recruiting agent and copy of the advertisement given for overseas employment.
