Biponi Scheme
Assam
BiponiBusinessEntrepreneurshipMicro
Details
The Biponi scheme is an initiative launched by the Government of Assam to promote the growth of small businesses, farmers, and artisans in the state. The scheme aims to create a more efficient and competitive market ecosystem in Assam, and provide various benefits and support to promote their businesses.
Under the scheme, the government provides financial assistance for the development of market infrastructure, such as godowns, storage facilities, and market yards, to facilitate the marketing of agricultural and non-agricultural products. The scheme also provides training and support to small traders and artisans to improve their marketing skills, financial management, and product quality.
Moreover, the Biponi  scheme promotes market linkages between small traders, farmers, and artisans, and various market channels, such as organized retailers, exporters, and food processing units. It also provides credit facilities and other support to small traders and artisans for working capital requirements, to promote their businesses.
The scheme primarily targets small traders, farmers, and artisans in the rural and semi-urban areas of Assam, and provides various benefits and support to promote their businesses and generate income and employment opportunities in the state.

Benefits
This scheme aims at Providing financial assistance for participation in Exhibition /Trade Fair/ Melas within the State, outside the state and outside the country.
Assistance at Rs. 5,000/- as stall rent for participation inside the state.
Assistance at Rs. 15,000/- as stall rent for participation outside the state.
DA at 50/- per stall for actual fair days for participating units within the district.
DA at 600/- per stall for actual fair days for participating units outside the district.
DA at 500/- per stall for actual fair days for participating units outside the State.
Up and down 2nd class Railway Fair for two people outside the state.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The location of the industry must be in rural areas of Assam.
The industry must be already existing and also the unit necessity is to have a continuous operation for a minimum of 2 years.
The industry/unit should hold its own workshed for the process and production.
The age of the applicant should be not less than 18 years and more than 50 years to apply for this scheme.
There is no bar of educational qualification.
Application Process
Online
Get the scheme application form from the respective office and have to fill out the scheme application form in a prescribed format.
The applicant can download the Biponi scheme application form from the link. 
Fill out the form and attached the required documents.
The form Should be addressed to District Industries and Commerce Centre.
Documents Required
List of the required document
One Pass Port size photograph.
Copy of Industry registration.
Caste Certificate, as applicable.
Training Certificate, if available.
Copy of cancelled cheque with the name of the proprietor printed.
Quotation from the fair organization regarding rent to be submitted.
