State Research Scholarship
Nagaland
Financial AssistanceNagalandState Research Scholarship
Details
Detailed 
Directorate of Higher Education Nagaland Kohima invites students who are eligible to submit applications for the Nagaland State Research Scholarship. This scholarship is specially designed for students who are pursuing research work. Under the scheme, beneficiaries will get cash awards to conduct their research work and financial aid to complete their studies. 

Benefits
Benefits
Under the Nagaland State Research Scholarship beneficiaries will get financial aid to complete their studies.
This scholarship is specially designed for students who are pursuing research work. Under the scheme, beneficiaries will get cash awards to conduct their research work.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
Applicable for Scheduled Tribe and Indigenous students of Nagaland who are pursuing M.Phil/Ph.D/D.Litt. course from recognized Universities within India.
Scholars who have availed this Scholarship three times are no longer eligible.
Applicant must not be a beneficiary of any other Fellowship/Scholarship scheme.
Applicant must not be an employee of any government/semi-government establishment
Application Process
Online
Application Process
To submit the application form, Applicants should open the official website https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/ of the Common Scholarship portal Nagaland.
On the home page, Applicants should choose the register button and the registration application form will open on the screen.
fill out the required details in the form like Applicant’s Name, Gender, Aadhaar number, Mobile Number, Email-Id, and Password 
Choose the Register option, and enter the verification code to complete the registration process 
Log in by entering the details and go to the apply link 
Choose the scholarship.
Fill in the details and complete all the formalities and upload the documents as listed.
Review the application and submit the application.
Send the printed application along with the signed document to Scholarship Section, Directorate of Higher Education, Below New Secretariat Complex, Nagaland, Kohima-797001

Renewal Application
To submit the renewal application form Applicants should open the the e of the Common Scholarship portal Nagaland
Press the login button to open the login page and enter the email, password and captcha code
Enter the login, go to the renewal option and choose the scholarship you wish to apply for and the application form will open
Fill in the details, complete all the formalities and upload the documents as listed.
Review the application, press submit button for final submission and take the printout of it
Send the printed application along with the signed document to the Scholarship Section, Directorate of Higher Education, Below New Secretariat Complex, Nagaland, Kohima-797001
Documents Required
Applicants need to upload their Aadhaar card and the front page of Bank Passbook during the online application form filling and attested xerox copies of the following documents with the hard copy of the application:
For fresh application
Class 10 admit card and mark sheet.
Last qualifying final examination Marksheet and Admit Card.
Scheduled Tribe Certificate and Indigenous Certificate issued by the competent designated authority.
Recognition letter of the University (Not necessary for Central University).
Synopsis of the proposed Research Work duly countersigned by the Guide or Supervisor (for Ph.D. scholars).
Registration Card/Letter (for PhD scholars).
Front page of Bank Passbook.
Aadhaar Card.
Admission receipt.

For renewal application
PhD scholars should enclose a copy of the Progress Report of his/her Research work duly attested and signed by the Guide or Supervisor.
MPhil scholars should enclose a certificate from the Guide/Supervisor stating the continuation of his/her MPhil works.
PhD students must submit Registration Card/Letter & Synopsis if not enclosed during fresh application.
Front page of Bank Passbook.
Aadhaar Card.
