Arun Pig Development Scheme
Arunachal Pradesh
EntrepreneurFarmerPig FarmingSelf Help Group (SHG)Subsidy
Details
The scheme “Arun Pig Development Scheme” was launched by the Department of Animal Husbandry, Veterinary & Dairy Development, Government of Arunachal Pradesh in the financial year 2019-20 with a focus on pig rearing. Among the livestock species, the pig finds an important place as it is being reared by socio-economically weaker sections of the society especially in the states like Arunachal Pradesh where most of people prefer non-veg cuisines with special attractions for Pork. The pig as compared to other livestock species has a great potential to contribute to a faster economic return to the farmers, because of certain inherent traits like high fecundity, better-feed conversion efficiency, early maturity, and short generation interval. Pig farming also requires small investments in buildings and equipment.
Objective
Genetic improvement of the indigenous pigs of Arunachal Pradesh for productivity enhancement by crossbreeding with the exotic breed(s) to a desired level of combination of exotic and local inheritance,
Improvement of indigenous pig rearing by the rural people by selective breeding,
Livelihood earning
Maintenance of well-planned crossbred animals at farmers’ field
Expansion of piggery husbandry and support mechanism to propagate pig rearing in rural areas
Ensure that the breeds introduced, and crossbreds produced and propagated in the state are adapted to local environmental conditions and emerging climatic challenges,
Strengthen support mechanisms and development of the sector in respect of feeding, housing, and health care besides value addition and marketing of the product with value chain development.
Scientific rearing and motivation of farmers for integrated piggery farming.
Important Features
Seeing the low interest of the actual grass root level farmer for the credit link schemes and their poor success rate, a new venture for piggery development in the state through direct intervention by the Department of AHV&DD, GoAP in terms of upgradation of genetic resources, and other peripherals, a new and innovative scheme is proposed for Budget Announcement 2019-20 for sustainable development and poverty alleviation of Farmers through Pig Rearing in potential districts of Arunachal Pradesh.
Livelihood earning, improvement of indigenous pig rearing by the rural people by selective breeding along with maintenance of well-planned crossbred animals at farmers’ fields.
Expansion of piggery husbandry and support mechanism to propagate pig rearing in rural areas.
Ensure that the breeds introduced, and crossbreds produced and propagated in the state are adapted to local environmental conditions and emerging climatic challenges.

Benefits
4750 farmers will be given piggery subsidy (25% beneficiary contribution and 75% government contribution).
Piglets will be procured by the District Administration and handed over to the farmers after ensuring that a suitable sty was constructed by the selected farmer.
The sty should accommodate 5 piglets with a scope to accommodate a further 15 nos.
5 pig entrepreneurs will be selected per district and each will be given an assistance of 15 piglets per unit @₹1.5 Lakh (govt. share)
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. Pig-rearing individual farmers/ Self Help Groups (SHGs), ones identified by the District Pig Development Committee are eligible to apply under the scheme.
3. Preference would be given to women and genuinely poor farmers.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant may contact nearest District Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Officer (DAHVO).

Step 02: Applications in prescribed format are received from concerned Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Office.

Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to concerned department.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card, etc.
Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card
Application form and farmer details in the prescribed format
Applicant’s residence proof
Passport size photo
