RKVY Soil Health and Fertility Village level Soil Testing Lab
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
INMRKVYRural EntrepreneurSoil HealthSoil Testing Lab
Details
Village level labs can be set up by rural youth, village-level entrepreneurs, including SHGs set up under The Rural Awareness Works Experience (RAWE) programme, Krishi Sakhis, students of government schools, and agriculture graduates from SAUs, PACS, etc. The labs should be operated by local youth.
Under the scheme, a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh will be given for establishment of VLSTL.

S. No, Component Cost (Rs. lakhs)
1 Soil testing with reagents & sample shaker machine with machine and AMC for one year 1.00
2 Distilled water, pH meter, Conductivity meter, Electronic balance, Glass-ware, filter-papers, and other need-based consumables 0.50

Total 1.50

Payment to VLSTLs will be made through DBT mode (provision is to be done by state).

The key objectives of the Mission are as follows:
• Provide easy access to soil testing facilities for farmers at the grassroot level, and offer affordable soil testing to farmers without the need for traveling long distances.
• Provide farmers with timely and accurate soil analysis results to enable them to make informed decision regarding fertiliser application and soil management practices.
• Facilitate customized soil nutrient recommendations based on test results
• Increase farmers’ awareness about soil health and the importance of soil testing.
• Enable farmers to optimize their fertiliser use and minimise input costs, and hence avoid under- or over- application
• Facilitate long-term soil health monitoring and planning
• Enable collection of soil data at local level. This data may be used for conducting studies, formulating policies, developing region-specific agricultural interventions.
• Increase employment at village level
• Strengthen soil testing laboratories in the country

Benefits
The scheme targets to provide following benefits:
1) Provide affordable access to soil test
2) Provide farmers with timely and accurate soil analysis results
3) Facilitate customized soil nutrient recommendations based on test results
4) Enable farmers to optimize their fertiliser use and minimise input costs, and hence avoid under- or over- application
5) Increase awareness among farmers regarding soil health and importance of soil testing
6) Aid data gathering and enable decision-making region-specific policy formulation
7) Accelerate employment generation among rural youth
8) Strengthen soil testing infrastructure in the country
Eligibility
1) The Age of the applicant should be between 18 to 27 years
2) The Educational Qualification of the applicant should be 10th pass with science and knowledge of computer
3) The applicant / entrepreneur group should have their own premises / rented building with lease agreement for atleast four years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Identification of individual beneficiary i.e. village level young entrepreneur and community based beneficiaries i.e., PACS, SHGs, School, Agriculture University, etc., in a transparent and time-bound manner

Step 02: Identification of premises for establishment of VLSTL 

Step 03: Verification of proof of procure land equipment / inputs.

Step 04: SLEC will finalise the entrepreneur’s proposals received from the District Level Executive Committee (DLEC). The entire procedure will take maximum one month.

Step 05: State government will release financial assistance to entrepreneurs within a week after approval of application

Step 06: Entrepreneurs after receiving fund will submit receipts of procurement of lab equipment, consumables, etc. to DLEC within 15 days
Documents Required
1) Aadhaar number
2) Land documents
3) Bank details
4) Photographs
The specific documents for availing the benefits of the program may vary depending on the type of intervention and the state. It is recommended to consult with the relevant authorities for detailed information on documents to be submitted.
