NEC Stipend And Book Grant Scheme
Nagaland
Book GrantFellowshipNagalandNEC Stipend
Details
Detailed 
The Directorate of Higher Education and Government of Nagaland is the authority that offers NEC Stipend and Book Grant Scheme, Nagaland. This scholarship scheme is offered to the students pursuing higher professional courses and belongs to ST and general category. Only Nagaland domiciled candidates will be eligible to apply for this scheme.

The number of stipends to be awarded every year to candidates may be decided by the State Government keeping in mind the fund provided to the State Govt. However, there may be an increase or decrease in each level of study depending upon the fund availability.,etc.)

NEC Stipend and Book Grant Scheme, Nagaland invites applications from Schedule Tribe and General category students pursuing the higher professional course. The main objective is to cultivate the spirit of the national mix, global understanding and social duty, empowering logical temper, imparting imaginative and innovative reasoning among students and so on.

Benefits
Benefits
The selection of the students will majorly depend upon their academic performance and the need for the scholarship. 
The selected students will receive stipends and book grants for studies in India only.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
ST & General Students of Nagaland State.
ST Students who have secured 60% marks in the last qualifying final examination and 75% marks for students belonging to General Category.
Students who are pursuing Higher Professional courses of studies in the Courses are approved by NEC.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Visit the official website of the government of Nagaland.
Students can apply online for this scholarship by clicking here.
The first step of the application process is registration.
To register yourself, click on the “New Registration” button.
Enter all the required details and complete the registration process.
Note down your registered user ID and password for future login.
Now, click on “Online Services” and select your desired scholarship scheme from the DHE menu.
Complete the remaining details and submit the form.
Applicants must take the printout of the filled-in application form and submit it to your institution.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Attested copy of the admission receipt.
Attested copy of school/college/university registration/affiliation certificate.
Attested copies of mark sheet, and admit card from class 10th onwards.
Attested copies of the ST certificate and indigenous certificate.
