Biotechnology Young Entrepreneur Award
Kerala
AwardBiotechnologyEntrepreneurStudentWorkshopYoung
Details
The “Biotechnology Young Entrepreneur Award (BYE)” is a programme to promote commercialisation of bioscience ideas among graduate/postgraduate students in Biotechnology and to encourage them to develop biotechnology entrepreneurship. This is an annual competition organized along with a workshop. The participants will then develop a Business Plan which will be judged by a panel of experts.

Benefits
The winning teams will be given cash awards by the Kerala Biotechnology Commission.
Cash award for winners - first prize ₹1,00,000/-, second prize ₹50,000/- and third prize ₹25,000/-.
The awardees will be encouraged to establish start-ups through facilitation and support after evaluation and recommendation by an Expert Committee.
Eligibility
Students who are pursuing post-graduate programmes (including integrated PG degree programmes), doctoral degrees, B.E. or B.Tech. in Biotechnology or in the area of life sciences related to biotechnology (bioinformatics/Molecular biology/microbiology/biochemistry/Genetics and/or related subjects) from universities/Institutes in the State of Kerala are eligible to apply.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited twice every year during January and June and are to be submitted online when notified. (Application form)
Scrutiny of the Application:
Step 01: An expert panel will evaluate the concept proposals and shortlist 15 teams. These 15 teams will attend a high-quality Entrepreneurship Workshop of 3-4 day’s duration that will familiarize them with matters related to starting a business venture like Business Plans, IP & Patenting Strategies, Raising Finance, Business Strategies and HR Practices, and other aspects of entrepreneurship development.
Step 02: After the workshop, each team may go back, consult among themselves and with their mentor, and develop a business plan based on their concept and learning experience from the workshop within 3 weeks after the workshop.
Step 03: Each team then will have to make a presentation to a panel of Experts. The panel will evaluate each of the business plans and identify three winning teams.
Note 01: The applicants should form a team of five students.
Note 02: At least three members in the team of five should be with a Life Science background and other members can be from disciplines other than life sciences/Biotechnology. The individual team member may or may not be from the same Institute/University.
Note 03: Each team should submit only one entry. A participant can be a member of only one team. Each team has to nominate a member as the team leader and may identify a mentor as a guide.
Note 04: The Proposals need to be submitted in the core areas of biotechnology which include: Agriculture, Aquaculture, Bio-energy, Biologicals and Applications, Bioprocess Engineering, Biosensors, Drug discovery & Development, Environment, Food, Medical Diagnostics/Devices, Nanobiology/Nanobiotechnology, Nutraceuticals, Vaccines and other related areas. The proposals could be either for a product, service or an application.
Note 05: Each team should submit a Concept Note in response to the notification, to the Chairman, Kerala Biotechnology Commission, KSCSTE, Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, TVPM–4. 
Contact Details:
The Advisor Kerala Bio-Technology Commission
Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), 
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 695 004 
Telephone: (0471) 2548406, 2548259 
E-mail: kbc.kscste@kerala.gov.in
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Endorsement certificate
3. Educational certificates
4. Proposed Business Plan
5. Summary of proposed research work
6. Consent letter
7. Certificate from head of the institution
8. Any other document, if required
