Thakur Sen Negi Utkrisht Chatravriti Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
EducationFinancial AssistanceScholarshipSkill DevelopmentStudent
Details
The scheme “Thakur Sen Negi Utkrisht Chatravriti Yojana", is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Education, Government of Himachal Pradesh. In this scheme, a scholarship of ₹11,000/-per annum is awarded to the top 100 Girls and top 100 Boys students belonging to the Tribal Community of Himachal Pradesh, declared as such in the result of the Matric Examination conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education, Dharamshala. The renewal in the 12th  Class/2nd Year of the course will be subject to satisfactory performance in internal examinations of the 11th Class/1st Year Course.

Benefits
A total of 100 girls and 100 boys will receive ₹ 11,000 per annum for two years.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bona fide of Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Tribes Category.
The applicant should have passed Class 10th.
The applicant should be in the top 100 Girls or top 100 Boys students, as declared in the result of the Matric Examination conducted by the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education.
The applicant should be studying in a recognized (including Professional / Technical) institution within or outside the State. 
The applicant should have a Bank Account.
NOTE: The renewal in the 10+2 Class / 2nd Year of course will be subject to satisfactory performance in internal examinations of the 10+1 Class / 1st Year Course.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Go to the Official Website of the National Scholarship Portal. and click “New Registration”. Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 2: A Registration Form will appear. The fields marked as * are mandatory. Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number. 
Step 3: Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password. Type the Captcha and click “Login”. On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm. Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 4: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
 Note 1: All the applicants are advised to fill out the form correctly, no changes can be made once submitted. 
Note 2:The applicants are also advised to fill in only one application as multiple applications will cancel the form.
Documents Required
1. Passport Size Photo.
2. Aadhaar Card (Unique Identification Number/ Enrollment Identity Document Number).
3. Himachali Bonafide Certificate.
4. Previous Year(s) Result Card(s) from Matric onwards.
5. Latest Statement of the Student's Bank Account.
6. Scheduled Tribe (ST) Category Certificate (Issued by an officer not below the rank of Tehsildar).
