Sruthitharangam ( Cochlear Implantation Scheme )
Kerala
ChildrenCochlearHearing ImpairedSruthitharangamSurgery
Details
The Government of Kerala launched the “Sruthitharangam (Cochlear Implantation Scheme)” under Kerala Social Security Mission by the Social Justice Department, Kerala. This scheme envisioned providing free cochlear implantation surgery for children in the age group of 0-5 years, who are hearing impaired. The early identification and intervention procedures initiated within six months of age should be the golden standard for the holistic development of a child with hearing loss. Cochlear Implant is a proven option for the treatment of profound hearing loss. The child from poor families whose annual family income is below ₹2 lakhs are eligible to get the benefit of this scheme. This scheme is implemented through Government as well as selected empaneled private hospitals in this field.
   The objective of this scheme is to provide a cochlear implant to children selected by Regional and State level technical committees for cochlear implantation and to provide financial support for Auditory Verbal Habilitation (AVH) to operate children through empaneled hospitals/centers.
Hospitals Covered Under the Scheme:
Govt. Medical College Hospital, Trivandrum.
Govt. Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode.
Govt. Medical College Hospital, Kottayam.
KIMS Hospital, Trivandrum.
Medical Trust Hospital, Kochi.
Dr. Noushad’s ENT Institute and Research Centre, Ernakulam.
West Fort Hi-Tech Hospital, Thrissur.
Dr. Manoj’s ENT Super Speciality Institute & Research Centre, Kozhikode.
MIMS Hospital, Kozhikode.
ASCENT ENT Hospital, Perinthalmanna

Benefits
Under the scheme, children who are hearing impaired will be provided free cochlear implantation surgery.
Note: The children will be selected by Regional and State level technical committees for cochlear implantation.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State.
2. The child who is hearing impaired is eligible under the scheme. 
3. The child should be in the age group of 0-3 years.
4. The annual family income of the applicant should be below ₹2 Lakhs.
Note: The Screening Committee would be empowered to make exceptions beyond 3 years and up to 5 years of age on a case-to-case basis; where the committee feels that a high possibility of success exists or if there are other compelling technical reasons warranting or making an exception.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the application form is duly filled and the necessary documents are to be submitted directly to Executive Director, Kerala Social Security Mission.
Address for Communication:
Executive Director,
Kerala Social Security Mission,
Poojappura, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala-695012
Phone No – 0471 2341200 
Documents Required
1. Proof of Identity 
2. Proof of age of the child
3. Income certificate
4. Copy of BPL card (if applicable)
5. Copy of Ration card (if applicable)
6. Residence certificate
7. Passport-size photograph
8. Child’s medical reports
