Chief Minister’s Yuva Kaushal Yojana
Arunachal Pradesh
EmploymentJobStipendTrainingYouth
Details
The scheme “Chief Minister’s Yuva Kaushal Yojana (CM YKY)” has been launched in the state of Arunachal Pradesh with effect from 1 April 2018 to provide high-end training to youth across the country. The programme is fully funded under the state plan with a specific focus on providing job linked high end training programme to the youth. The objective of the scheme is to provide high-end training to the youth across the state to enable them to find jobs in the private sector.
Important Features: There are 2 categories of training provided under CM YKY:
1. Training within the state by inviting reputed Vocation Training Providers and providing them with suitable incentives.
2. Training outside the State by identifying high-end reputed Vocational Training Providers and courses.

Benefits
The scheme provides high-end training to the youth across the state to enable them to find jobs in the private sector.
A guarantee of a minimum 70% placement to the youth.
A Stipend of ₹3000/- is to be given to the trainees undergoing the course.
Cost of Uniforms/ Books to be borne by the state government.
Boarding and Lodging are to be provided during on-the Job Training within the state.
The boarding/ lodging, transportation cost, training fee, etc. shall be borne by the State Govt. @ ₹300/- per day per candidate if training to be outside the State.
A job portal for the youth, registration through which would provide a platform and linkage between prospective employers mostly from outside the State, and job seekers of the state in consultation with the Dept. of Labour & Employment
Arrangement of Annual Skill Mela in the State of Arunachal Pradesh.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. The applicant should have a minimum qualification of class X.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant may contact the nearest Skill Centre under "Chief Minister’s Yuva Kaushal Yojana".

Step 02: The applicant can get the application form at the concerned Skill Centre and fill the form completely.

Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to the concerned authority.

Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail of the benefit of the scheme and the amount of stipend through DBT mode.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card
10th Pass Certificate
Registered Mobile number
Bank details of the beneficiary
Domicile Certificate
