International Cooperation Scheme- Capacity Building of First Time MSE Exporters
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Capacity BuildingCooperationExporterFinancial AssistanceInternationalMSE
Details
The scheme “International Cooperation Scheme” was launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India with the aim to capacity build MSMEs for entering the export market by facilitating their participation in international exhibitions/fairs/conferences/seminars/buyer-seller meets abroad as well as providing them with actionable market-intelligence and reimbursement of various costs involved in export of goods and services. The Scheme provides opportunities for MSMEs to continuously update themselves to meet the challenges emerging out of changes in technology, changes in demand, emergence of new markets, etc. Thus, in totality, all components of the scheme aimed at various aspects required to advance MSMEs' position as emerging export players.
The Scheme would cover the following sub-components:
• Sub-Component-I: Market Development Assistance of MSMEs (MDA)
• Sub-Component-II: Capacity Building of First Time MSE Exporters (CBFTE)
• Sub-Component-III: Framework for International Market Intelligence Dissemination (IMID)
As on date, Sub-Component–I and Sub-Component-II are in operation. Sub-Component-III will be in operation soon.
Sub-Component II: Capacity Building of First Time MSE Exporters (CBFTE):
The key interventions proposed under the scheme are highlighted below:-
Reimbursement of costs incurred by first-time MSE exporters on export shipments –
Registration-cum-Membership Certificate (RCMC) paid by the first-time exporters for registration with EPCs.
Export insurance premiums paid by MSEs.
Fee paid on Testing and Quality Certification acquired by MSEs to export products. This will encourage MSEs to produce and offer products and services of international standards for the export markets.

Benefits
Scale of Assistance and Eligible Items of Expenditure:
Financial assistance towards costs incurred by first-time MSE Exporters on export shipments:-
Registration-cum-Membership Certificate (RCMC) charges/fee paid by the first-time exporter to relate EPCs  75% of the cost paid subject to a maximum of ₹20,000/- or actual, whichever is lower subject to quarterly reporting by EPCs as per prescribed format. 
Export Insurance Premium paid to Export Credit Guarantee Corporation Ltd. (ECGC) under the ECGC's Small Exporter's Policy Maximum financial assistance in a financial year of ₹10,000/- or actual, whichever is lower subject to quarterly reporting by ECGC Ltd. as per prescribed format
Fee paid on Testing & Quality Certification acquired by MSEs to Export Products                                                               (Note: Ministry of MSME shall share the list of beneficiaries who have availed the financial assistance under this sub-component, with MAI Division, Department of Commerce, on quarterly basis) 75% of the testing and quality certification with a ceiling of ₹1.00 Lakh or actual, whichever is lower, subject to the following conditions:                                          1. Financial assistance is allowed for a maximum of 3 certificates per financial year with a ceiling of ₹1.00 Lakh per MSE unit.                                                                                                         2. Certificate, for which financial assistance is requested, should be attained within the same financial year. 
Eligibility
The Micro and Small Enterprises with valid Udyam Registration are eligible to apply under the scheme.
To claim the benefits under the scheme, the applicant's Importer Exporter Code (IEC) must not be older than 3 years on the date of export shipment.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The applicant Organisation will submit an online application for financial assistance, along with the relevant documents in the proforma (prescribed on the IC Scheme portal: https://ic.msme.gov.in) giving full details of expenditure.
Step 02: To apply under the scheme, the applicant organization needs to visit the official website/portal. (https://ic.msme.gov.in/IC_APP/IC_Welcome.aspx)
Step 03: On the home page, select the “Capacity Building of First Time MSE Exporters” to Login, if Already Registered. If the applicant Organization is a new user, click on “New User Register Here” to register under the scheme by selecting the type of Organization.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant organization can login with valid credentials. After login, the user will be redirected to their Dashboard where multiple action has to be done.
Note: The admissible financial assistance would be worked out in accordance with the criteria/scale.
Process of seeking financial assistance under the Scheme:
RCMC certificate: Ministry of MSME to sign MoU with EPCs. These EPCs will then be eligible to apply for financial assistance under the IC scheme. They will be required to apply for financial assistance claims on behalf of MSEs along with all prescribed documents on the IC Scheme portal.
Export Insurance Premium: Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) Ltd. provides insurance to Exporters. The Ministry of MSME will sign a MoU with ECGC Ltd. and claims for financial assistance for the first-time MSE exporters will be released from the IC Scheme to ECGC upon receipt of the application on the updated portal of the IC Scheme.
Testing and Quality Certification: The Ministry of MSME to sign an MoU with National Small Industries Corporation Ltd. Financial assistance on certifications defined under the scheme will be released to NSIC Ltd. for further dissemination of funds to eligible MSEs.
Documents Required
Documents required for RCMC (Claim Form at Annexure K):
IEC Code not more than 3 years old on the date of export shipment
RCMC fee receipt
Proof of export carried out in the same financial year for which RCMC is claimed
Documents required for Export Insurance Premium (Claim Form at Annexure L):
IEC code not more than 3 years old on the date of export shipment
Receipt of Insurance Premium
Proof of export shipment carried out in the same financial year for which insurance is claimed
Documents required for Testing and Quality Certification (Claim Form at Annexure M):
IEC code not more than 3 years old on the date of export shipment
Testing and quality certification
Proof of export shipment of product for which testing and quality certification is claimed.
Proof of mandatory requirement of Testing and Quality Certification for such export.
Self-certification by MSE that he/she has not availed benefits under the Market Access Initiative (MAI) Scheme of the Department of Commerce, for the same purpose (As at Annexure-N).
Note: The above documents are to be duly attested/certified by the applicant organization.
