Vishesh Shiksha Sahaayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EducationFinancial AssistanceSocial Welfare
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Vishesh Shiksha Sahaayata Yojana" for Building and other construction worker on 10 July 2018.. The main objective of the scheme to provides financial assistance for education.

Benefits
For registered workers who pass away after one year of registration, the Board will issue special registration cards.
These children will be eligible for the benefits of the Naunihal Scholarship Scheme, Meritorious Students Education Incentive Scheme, and Technical Education Scheme.
Benefits will be granted to the first two eligible children of the deceased worker.
Eligibility
Construction workers (parents) should be registered.
Construction workers (parents) are dead with in one year of registration with labor board.
Only the first two children of registered construction workers will be eligible.
Children will not be eligible if any other registered construction workers are in the family (parents) other than the deceased worker.
Application Process
Online
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Bhavan Evan Koi Sannirmaan"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Original copy labor registration card of either the mother or father of the beneficiary.
Copy of the applicant's Aadhar card.
Copy of the applicant's bank pass book.
Photograph of the beneficiary.
Copy of self-declaration certificate of the applicant. (Applicant means son/daughter/adopted son/adopted daughter of the deceased construction worker.)

Note:- Along with the online application, it will be mandatory to scan only the original documents and upload them online.
