Medhavi Chhatr/Chhatra Shiksha Protsahan Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceLaborScholarshipStudent Finance
Details
Chhattisgarh "Medhaavee Chhaatr/ Chhaatra Shiksha Protsaahan Yojana" has been started by the Government of Chhattisgarh and operated by the Labor Department of Chhattisgarh. Benefits will be provided to applicants studying in 10th, 12th, graduation, post graduation, and some selected courses.

Benefits

Class wise details Annual Incentive Amount (For Boy Students) Annual Incentive Amount (For Girl Students)
For Class 10th & 12th ₹ 5,000/- ₹ 5,500/-
All Graduate Courses ₹ 7,500/- ₹ 7,500/-
All Post Graduate Courses ₹ 10,000/- ₹ 10,500/-
All vocational education and professional education ₹ 12,000/- ₹ 12,500/-
By Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education. For the boys and girls who are in the top ten of merit in the state level examination of class 10th and 12th held ₹ 1,00,00/- ₹ 1,00,000/-
Government ITI, IIT, Engineering, Medical, Law, Dental, and Nursing. For the students taking admission in the college (This facility will also be provided to the children of the beneficiaries taking admission in the above streams in non-government institutions at the rate applicable in the government institution) The admission fee of each academic session, all academic fees, expenses incurred on hostel accommodation and food will be reimbursed by the Board and every year Rs 2000 will be paid separately by the Board for copy-books and stationery. The admission fee of each academic session, all academic fees, expenses incurred on hostel accommodation and food will be reimbursed by the Board and every year Rs 2000 will be paid separately by the Board for copy-books and stationery.
Eligibility
Applicant should be resident of Chhattisgarh. 
First two children from a family
Factory worker should be registered.
Those children who score more than 75 percent marks will get the benefit of the scheme.
Beneficiaries will be eligible for the benefits of this scheme after 90 days of registration.
Application Process
Offline
Registered construction workers can apply through any CSC center or labor office.
Get the application form.
Fill out with required details.
Attach the necessary documents. 
Documents Required
Labor Registration Certificate (Guardian).
Aadhar card.
Bank account details.
Permanent residence certificate.
Marksheet of the student in the previous year's class.
Certificate issued by the Principal of studying in the current session.
