Technical Education Scholarship Scheme for ITI Level
Himachal Pradesh
ITIOBCSCScholarshipSTTechnical Education
Details
The scheme “Technical Education Scholarship Scheme for ITI Level” was started by the Department of Technical Education, Himachal Pradesh. The objective of awarding this scholarship is two-fold, firstly to improve the quality of training by attracting promising trainees belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, and Other Backward Classes, who otherwise would not be in a position to pursue training due to financial constraints and secondly to popularize technical training among these categories, so as to make them able to earn their livelihood respectably and honourably.

Benefits
The scholarships shall be paid at the rate of ₹250/- per month per trainee subject to the condition that the corresponding decrease shall be affected in the rate of scholarship if the trainees receive a stipend from any other department of the Government or any organization.
Eligibility
The students belonging to the SC/ST/OBC Categories studying in the I.T.Is and I.T.Is for women in Himachal Pradesh, who are bonafide Himachali, and as per categories notified by the State Government shall be eligible for the grant of these scholarships.
Note: The Scholarships shall be admissible to all such students who are categorized and notified as SC/ST/ OBC for the entire period of their training in the respective trades in the I.T.Is and I.T.Is for women except unauthorized absence from the training during the second half and a shortfall in attendance of the trainee below 80%.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to "Register" using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL - https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a system-generated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference.
Documents Required
1. Passport Size Photo
2. Aadhaar Card (UID/EID No)
3. Himachali Bonafide Certificate
4. Previous Year(s) Result Card(s) from Matric onwards
5. Latest Bank Statement of the Students Bank Account
6. Caste Certificate (Issued by an officer not below the rank of Tehsildar)
7. Any other document, as required
