Samruddhi Scheme
Karnataka

Details
It aims to collaborate, create a partnership with potential companies, and thereby promote 25,000 entrepreneurs in the State for three years. This will be done by facilitating access to ready to do business models, franchise, dealerships and other self-employment based ventures in the State.

With a vision of driving entrepreneurs among the economically backward section across the state, the Department of Social welfare has launched Samruddhi.It aims to create Industry Oriented Enterprise by enabling the SC/ST community through entrepreneurship and skill training.This scheme is touted as the country’s most aspirational programme.It focuses more on non-technological entrepreneurship model where the applicant will be entitled to set up a retail outlet after having gone through a training process that will be provided by the franchisor.
Samruddhi also looks to impart skill after ascertaining the requirement from the industry, with the objective to take entrepreneurship to tier II and tier III regions.The programme aims to build a robust network of franchisors and eventually extend the range of products and services on offer to tier II and tier III towns which cater to the people at the bottom of the pyramid. Samruddhi aims to build plug and play models of micro franchisee with a motive of turning a job seeker to a job giver.

The subsidy component of this scheme is Rs. 10,00,000/-
Samruddhi scheme will create thousands of employment opportunities by being a catalyst between a corporation and beneficiaries thereby creating a conducive ecosystem to roll out tried and tested successful business models in Karnataka resulting in increased income levels and improved standard of living.

The applicant can apply Samruddhi Scheme for the following type Business:
Hardware and Garments, Entertainment and Retail. Food and Beverages, Health and Fitness, Agriculture and Automobiles, Wellness and Beauty, Electricals and Mobiles, Logistics and Counter Service,Watches, Luggage and Footwear, Dairy Products, Education, Books and Stationary,Home Appliances and Hospitality

Benefits
Under this scheme, Government of Karnataka provides an initial capital up to 10 lakhs with training and overall capacity building to carry out chosen business activities.
Continued mentorship and support to face roadblocks that may arise and create a robust, sustainable business enterprise.
Benefits to Franchisors
Samruddhi Scheme is an opportunity to venture into new markets and reach new customer segment with virtually no additional cost
The Prospect of increasing the market share through new Franchises or Dealerships
Samruddhi Scheme is assisting in identifying potential entrepreneurs especially in Tier 2, and Tier 3 cities that further results in saving of cost, time and effort
Eligibility
Eligibility Criteria – Applicant
Age of the applicant should be minimum 21 years
Applicant must qualify SSLC(Secondary School Leaving Certificate)
An applicant must be a permanent resident of Karnataka
The applicant must belong SC community

Eligibility Criteria for Empanelment of Firms
The company should be registered in India
The company should provide a franchise/dealership opportunity
The firm should have a strong brand and market presence for at least three years
The firm should have a minimum of ten franchisee/dealership
The firm needs to provide marketing training to the entrepreneurs

Conditions:
1. The beneficiary will be selected as per merit. He should go through the screening process at the district level and should be approved by the franchisor 
2. The beneficiary must compulsorily must undergo the orientation program conducted by the franchisor 
3. The selected candidate if at any stage is found ineligible such sanction from the corporation stands cancelled. The physical and financial targets have been calculated as per population and such targets have been communicated at the district level.
Application Process
Online
Application Form for Individuals

Step 1: To apply for Samruddhi Scheme, you need to access the home page of the  Social Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka.
Step 2: Select the New Samruddhi option from the home page. By clicking on this, the link will redirect to a new page of Samruddhi Scheme online web portal.
Step 3: In this new portal, select the option Register as a beneficiary to get the benefits of  Samruddhi Scheme.
Step 4: Beneficiary application for Samruddhi scheme will be displayed. You need to provide the details.
Step 5: After providing the required information, you need to attach documents as described above.
Step 6: Once the documents are submitted, you can apply by clicking on the submit button.

Application Form for Empanelment Of Franchisors For Samruddhi Scheme

Step 1: To apply for Samruddhi Scheme, you need to access the home page of the  Social Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka.
Step 2: Select the New Samruddhi option from the home page. By clicking on this, the link will redirect to a new page of Samruddhi Scheme online web portal.
Step 3: From Samruddhi portal, select Register as a corporate to get the benefits of Samruddhi Scheme
Step 4: Application Form for Empanelment of Franchisors for Samruddhi Scheme will be displayed. You need to fill all the details.
Step 5: After providing the required information, you need to attach documents as described above.
Step 6: Once the documents are submitted, you can submit an application by clicking on the submit button.
Step 7: The application form for Samruddhi scheme will be scrutinised by the Social Welfare Department. Once the application is found suitable for Samruddhi scheme, the benefits will be provided to the applicant or firm.
Documents Required
Documents Required for Beneficiary

Applicant’s Photo
Proof of Residence
Caste Certificate
Ration Card Number / UID Number / PAN Card
Copy of property document or rental agreement

Documents Required for Franchisor

Registered documents of the organization, entity or firm to be submitted
Permanent Account number of Organization / TIN / GST – self-attested photocopy
Chartered Accountant certified documents
Self-certification that any Government Organization has never blacklisted entity
Number of Franchisee/ Dealership proposed in Karnataka
