Dr. D.S. Kothari Research Grant For Newly Recruited Faculty Members
Ministry of Education
FacultyResearch
Details
The scheme "Dr. D.S. Kothari Research Grant for Newly Recruited Faculty Members" is a research grant scheme by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education (DoHE). The purpose of the research grant is to provide opportunities to regularly appointed faculty members of Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges to pursue research in their area(s). All teachers who are newly appointed at the level of Assistant Professor against permanent posts in the university shall be eligible to receive financial support under the scheme. The Assistant professor should possess a Ph.D. degree with a minimum of five (5) research papers to his / her credit, published in journals of international repute. There are 132 slots, and the tenure is 2 years. The quantum of support under the scheme is ₹ 10,00,000.

Benefits
Tenure and Slots
Tenure: 2 years; Slots: 132

Financial Assistance
The quantum of support under the scheme is ₹ 10,00,000. The grant can be utilized for purchasing items like minor equipment, consumables, contingencies, fieldwork, travel, etc. The items/equipment purchased from this grant shall be the property of the University.

Note 1: The grant cannot be used for international travel, purchasing furniture items or for 
appointing a project assistant or research fellow.
Note 2: The quantum of funds under these heads can be decided by the recipient depending on 
his / her needs.
Eligibility
(i)   Faculty members regularly appointed and working in the following institutions:
a)   Universities (including constituent and affiliated colleges/institutions) are included under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956, and have valid accreditation from NAAC.
b)   deemed-to-be-universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
c)   Institutions fully funded by Central or State Governments and empowered to award Degrees.
d)   Institutions of National Importance.

(ii)   All newly appointed teachers at the level of Assistant Professor against permanent posts in the university shall be eligible to receive financial support under the scheme.

(iii)   The Assistant professor should possess a Ph.D. degree with a minimum of five (5) research papers to his / her credit, published in journals of international repute. 

(iv)   The Assistant Professor should apply for the grant within a period of two years from the date of joining the post in the Department / University.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded to the UGC website i.e. www.ugc.ac.in

Step 1: Read the Guidelines 
This is the home page of the website: https://frg.ugc.ac.in/
● 5 schemes are displayed on the Homepage.
● Under each scheme, UGC guidelines are available. Before applying, kindly read the guidelines carefully and ensure your eligibility.


Step 2: Registration
● On the homepage, for registration, click on “New User” for the scheme you need to apply.
● Here, you need to fill in all the details for registration and provide an email address that will be used for all future correspondence.
● Please keep ready a scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB, format: jpg), before registration.
● The details provided at the registration stage will not be modified, after submission. It will be reflected in the Profile.
● Click on the ‘Submit’ button, after filling in all details. 

Step 3: Login
● After registration, you will receive an email from ugchelp@mail.inflibnet.ac.in with the Scheme Login Credentials to fill out the application form.
● You need to fill in the received login credentials
● Please change the password while logging in for the first time. Remember the new password, thereafter.

Step 4: Dashboard
● The details provided by you during Registration are now available in Profile.
● Various icons displayed here will be shown in red color before complete details are entered. Once all details are filled in and submitted, the color of the icons will change to green.
● Here, you need to click on the “Eligibility Criteria” button.

Step 5: Eligibility alert
● Read all the criteria and click on the check box next to UGC guidelines. 

Step 6: Eligibility 
● Please provide all the required details here.
● Kindly note that, once submitted, the eligibility form will not be modified.
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Step 7: Data Capturing Format 
After that, you click on the “Apply Now” box (see on rectangle)
Here, Data Capturing Dashboard will display where you need to fill in PG and Ph.D. details
Click on the PG Educational Qualification box

Step 8: PG details
● Provide PG details
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 9: Ph.D. Details
● Provide Ph.D.-related details and upload the required documents 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 10: Declaration
● Please read the declaration carefully.
● If you agree with the declaration, click on the check box next to “I Agree with above” 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Please save your application for future use.

Note: No hard copies of the application form will be accepted or entertained at any point of time

Selection Process

Step 1: The applications will be evaluated by a minimum of three referees assigned by the UGC as per the area of research proposed by the applicant. The evaluation includes the merit of the proposed project, the professional standing of the candidate, and the institution where the research is to be carried out.
Step 2: On the basis of the score received from the referees, the final merit list will be generated. The result shall be declared on the UGC website (www.ugc.ac.in). Selected candidates can download their award letters through the UGC website.

Note: The whole process would be akin to that employed for manuscript handling and evaluation by leading international journals and will be a paperless exercise. No interim queries will be entertained.
The Commission reserves the right to withdraw/cancel the award of the Research Grant without assigning any reason.
Documents Required
Scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1 MB, format: jpg).
Complete Research proposal (size upto 5 MB) and an abstract (size upto 1 MB)
After filling out the application form, an auto-generated form will be displayed on your screen. Please take the print out of the same, get it signed by the HoD/Registrar, and upload the same before the submission of the application form.
