Internship Scheme For PG/Research Students In Directorate General Of Trade Remedies (DGTR)
Ministry Of Commerce And Industry
CommerceInternshipInternshipPostgraduationResearchTrade
Details
The Internship Scheme by the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce & Industry provides opportunity to young scholars, especially from Law / Economics stream, interested in learning about trade remedial investigations. The objective of this scheme is to familiarize interested and willing PG students / Research scholars with Trade remedial investigations / Trade Defence measures.

Tenure
Minimum duration of internship will be one month.

Nature of Internship
The Interns will be attached to one officer of DGTR who will act as ‘mentor’ to the Intern and would design a suitable schedule for the intern.
The Interns would be attached with Officers / Division /Cell as decided by the competent authority of DGTR based on recommendation of the ‘mentor’.

Number of Interns
The number of interns to be taken will be decided by the DGTR.
Internship in DGTR is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the Department / Organization / Government.

Termination of Internship
DGTR reserves the right to terminate the internship of any intern at any point of time without assigning any reason in this regard to either the intern or his/her institution.

Benefits
Certificate of Internship
Certificates will be issued to the interns at the end of successful completion of the Internship.
NOTE: No financial aid / stipend will be provided by this Directorate to the interns.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Postgraduate Student or a Research Scholar from a recognized University/Institute.
The Internship should be a part of their Course curriculum (wherein duration of internship may extend to a semester) or undertaken as an additional assignment during the annual vacations.
 
Application Process
Offline
Online
The interested PG students / Research scholars may send their application in the prescribed proforma along with their CV (optional) either by post or by-hand to reach the following address:
General Administration Section
Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR)
Ministry of Commerce
Jeevan Tara Building, New Delhi, Delhi 110001
NOTE: The application should be sent at least one month in advance from the date the applicant intends to join.
Documents Required
At the time of Application - 
The candidate will be required to produce a permission / forwarding letter from their Supervisor or Head of Department of the Institute.
At the time of Completion of the Internship - 
The interns will be required to present a brief report / paper at the end of their assignment /internship.   
