AICTE SHORT TERM TRAINING PROGRAMME-SFURTI SCHEME
Ministry of Education
AICTEFinancial AssistanceTrainings
Details
Short Term Training Programme-SFURTI Program, launched by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), aims to provide financial assistance to the institutions for conducting faculty and student trainings to enable faculty members and students in the field of technical education and to introspect and learn techniques that can help prepare faculty and students to impart their research work in the development of small-scale business for the nation.
All India Council For Technical Education (AICTE) and Indian Micro Enterprises Development Foundation (IMEDF) is conducting STTP-SFURTI Program .This is a special purpose vehicle for developing alternatives group that accelerates the development of micro-enterprises. IMEDF is also the nodal agency of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India for the development of clusters under STTP-SFURTI (Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries.

Objectives:
To understand the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI).
To train the students and faculty in identifying and presenting a project proposal.
To enhance and sharpen their skills to develop a viable detailed project report.
To understand resource management for building a project with technological and social innovations.
To develop an in depth understanding of project management, resolve challenges faced in sustainable rural economic development and derive lessons on social, economic and environmental impacts.

Benefits
Financial Assistance: Limit of funding ₹ 4,00,000/- to the institution.
Disbursement of the Fund: 
The full amount of the grant sanctioned shall be released after successful conduct of the program to Indian Micro Enterprises Development Foundation (IMEDF).
The amount spent by the institute on the conduct of STTP-SFURTI shall be adjusted on the basis of utilization certificate and detailed expenditure statement submitted by the IMEDF on the prescribed format along with other mandatory documents viz feedback form, copy of proceedings and completion report etc
Eligibility
The institution should be AICTE approved.
Application Process
Online
Registration of New Institute:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicte-india.org/partnerportal_enu/start.swe and click on 'New Institute' button.
Step 02: Users will be redirected to another website. Hover the cursor on Login and select ‘Investor Login’.
Step 03: New users need to click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.
Step 04: Enter the details and click on ‘Verify’ to receive OTP on your Email Id and Mobile Number.
Step 05: After successful verification Click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.

Post-Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicte-india.org/partnerportal_enu/start.swe and log in with the credentials provided by AICTE.
Step 02: Navigate to AQIS Application Screen by clicking on ‘AQIS Application’ screen tab.
Step 03: Institute details will auto populate in the AQIS Application.
Step 04: Fill demographic and Bank details .
Step 05: Only after confirming the Bank Details, the 'New' button will be enabled for adding the AQIS Application.Click on 'New' button to create AQIS Application.
Step 06: A unique AQIS Application ID will get created.Select ‘SHORT TERM TRAINING PROGRAMME-SFURTI SCHEME’ as Scheme from the drop down List.
Step 07: Now details to be filled for the as followed: Programme Details, Personalities Expected, Participating Industries ,Similar Events, Budget Estimate -Others, Academic Credentials of Coordinator/ PI/ Applicant, Justification, Credential of Institute / Department.
Step 07: Once the user has filled all the data in the above mentioned tab, user should click on ‘Validate Application’ button on the ‘AQIS Application’ tab.
Step 08: User will get a pop up message to attach a Mandate Form  after downloading the sample form.
Step 09: Now fill the amount in the ‘Total Funds Requested’ under label ‘Budget Estimates Others’.
Step 10: After Validation is completed successfully, read the declaration, check it and click on Save.
Step 10: Click on 'Submit' button to submit the application.
Documents Required
Feedback Form
Copy of Proceedings
Completion Report
