Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar Scheme for writing original book in Hindi
Ministry Of Home Affairs
AwardHindiOfficial LanguagePuraskarRajbhasha
Details
The scheme “Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar Scheme for Writing Original Book in Hindi” was launched by the Department of Official Language, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India with an objective to encourage writing books originally in Hindi and to promote Official Language. Under the scheme, the citizens of India will be awarded as follows:-
Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi on knowledge and science-based subjects.
Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi on Forensic Science, Police, Criminology Research and Police Administration.
Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi on subjects related to Culture, Religion, Arts and Heritage.
Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi in the field of law.
Objective:
(A) Various Ministries/Departments/Offices/Undertakings/Banks etc. of the Central Government also deal with technical subjects in their official Work. The difficulty is being faced to increase the use of Hindi in official work due to scarcity of books in Hindi on the subjects based on technology, science, forensic science, police, criminology research, police administration, culture, religion, arts, heritage and in the field of law. In addition, employees do face difficulties in doing their official work in Hindi as they are less acquainted or non-acquainted with Hindi terminologies of these subjects. The Department of Official Language is undertaking this scheme with the sole objective to encourage writing books in Hindi on the above-mentioned subjects. 
(B) Various Ministries/Departments have undertaken different award schemes related to Hindi at the national level. Department of Official Language has been made the sole Nodal Department for book schemes related to Hindi. Hence, relevant schemes among the award schemes related to Hindi being run by various Ministries/ Departments at the national level have been incorporated under the scheme. It has been decided to discontinue the other award schemes. If any Ministry/Department, in the future, wishes to undertake any other award scheme related to Hindi it shall mandatorily consult with the Department of Official Language before taking up any such scheme to avoid repetition of the award scheme.

Benefits
Award Scheme Summary:
A. Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi on knowledge and science based subjects:
First Prize: ₹2,00,000/-, a certificate and a memento
Second Prize: ₹1,25,000/-, a certificate and a memento
Third Prize: ₹75,000/-, a certificate and a memento
B. Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi on Forensic Science, Police, Criminology Research and Police Administration
First Prize: ₹1,50,000/-, a certificate and a memento
Second Prize: ₹1,00,000/-, a certificate and a memento
C. Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi on subjects related to Culture, Religion, Arts and Heritage
First Prize: ₹1,50,000/-, a certificate and a memento
Second Prize: ₹1,00,000/-, a certificate and a memento
D. Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar for writing original book in Hindi in the field of law
First Prize: ₹1,50,000/-, a certificate and a memento
Second Prize: ₹1,00,000/-, a certificate and a memento
Note 01: Copyright on the award-winning book will remain with the Authors/Publishers.
Note 02: Awardees coming from places other than the place fixed for distribution of the award will be given to and fro fare for 2nd AC and daily allowance as per rules of the Government of India. Arrangements for lodging will be made by him/her at his/her own expense.
Eligibility
The author/co-author should be a citizen of India.
The book should be written in the genres mentioned as follows:-
Engineering, Electronics, Computer Science, Physics, Biology, Energy, Space Science, Medicine, Chemistry, Information Technology, Management, Psychology, etc; Contemporary subjects such as Liberalisation, Globalisation, Consumerism, Human Rights and Pollution etc.
Forensic Science, Police, Criminology Research and Police Administration etc.
Culture, Religion, Arts and Heritage etc.
Subject related to Law
General Conditions:
In case of Author is more than one, each co-author must fill out the proforma separately.
Under the scheme only those books which are original works of the author in Hindi, are accepted. Translated books are not accepted.
Books awarded previously by any government organization will not become eligible. The author of the book must inform the Department of Official Language immediately if the book is awarded under any other award scheme before the declaration of the awards under the above-mentioned schemes.
Under the scheme, books published from 1st January to 31st December are acceptable.
The book should be an analytical review of the subject it deals with. Books written in the form of a thesis for a Ph.D., poems, novel, story, play etc., or textbooks will not be eligible under the scheme.
The author/co-author will be responsible for facts and figures given in the book and must give references wherever possible as proof.
If a person has received a prize under any scheme of the Department of Official Language during the preceding three years, his/her entry shall not be considered. However, a co-author, (if any) can participate in the scheme. The co-author will be given the amount proportionately.
The books should contain at least 100 pages.
If the Evaluation Committee arrives at a conclusion that none of the books, received as entries, is suitable for the award, the decision of the committee in this regard will be considered as final.
In case the book selected for the award has more than one author the award money will be divided equally among them.
Only books with ISBN will be accepted under the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Procedure for sending the entries:
Step 01: The applicants need to visit the official website of the department and download the application proforma.
Step 02: Fill out the author entry proforma with accurate details and send it to the department before the last date so declared.
Note 01: Applicant is required to send three copies of the book invariably with each entry. The copies will not be returned.
Note 02: An author may send only one entry under the scheme.
Note 03: The entry should be sent along with the proforma given in the Annexure; otherwise the same would not be accepted.
Evaluation Procedure of Books:
Books will be evaluated by a committee constituted by the Department of Official Language based on the criteria set by the Department of Official Language. A Joint Secretary, Department of Official Language will be the Chairperson of the committee. If necessary, the Committee may include non-official renowned scholars/experts along with official members. 
The next of kin of the authors, who are sending their entries, will not be included in the Evaluation Committee.
An official from the Ministry/Department concerned with the subject may be included in the Evaluation Committee for evaluation of the entries.
The Evaluation Committee shall have the right to take advice from specialists/experts on the subject before deciding on a book.
The evaluation committee will determine the assessment criteria themselves.
In the absence of consensus about the award the decision will be made by the majority. In case for and against votes are equal on any decision, then the Chairperson shall have the right to vote to arrive at a decision.
The Department of Official Language will take decision on recommendations made by the Evaluation Committee.
Declaration and distribution of awards:
Decision regarding the award will be intimated through a letter/email to all the awardees and placed on the website of the Department of Official Language.
Distribution of the Awards will be held on the date fixed by the Department of Official Language.
Documents Required
Identify proof
A mobile number
An email-id
Original book 
Any Other documents if required 
