Grant of Subsidy for Purchase of Mangalyam to the Bridegroom of Weaker Section
Puducherry
BrideBridegroomFinancial AssistanceMarriageSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Grant of Subsidy for Purchase of Mangalyam to the Bridegroom of Weaker Section” by the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Pondicherry, was introduced to provide Financial Assistance of ₹ 2,500/- to the Bridegroom from Weaker Section. The application for this scheme should be submitted 15 days before the date of marriage.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 2,500/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The bridegroom should be above 21 years of age.
The bride should be above 18 years of age.
The bridegroom should be a native of the UT of Pondicherry.
The annual income of the bridegroom and his parents should be less than ₹ 24,000/­.
The application should be submitted 15 days before the date of marriage.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card.
2. Residence Certificate of the Bridegroom from the Revenue Department.
3. Income Certificate of the Bridegroom from the Revenue Department.
4. Passport-Sized Photograph.
5. Declaration/Undertaking (if any).
6. Certificate from MP / MLA or the Commissioner of the Municipality / Commune Panchayat.
7. Wedding Invitation.
8. Age Certificate / Age Proof of the Bride and Bridegroom.
