Medical Assistance (A.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Assam
Construction WorkerCritical DiseasesHospitalLabourMedicalPartial Disability
Details
The scheme “Medical Assistance” was started by the Assam Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (A.B.O.C.W.W.B), Labour Welfare Department, Government of Assam. Under this scheme, medical assistance shall be provided to the Building & Other Construction Workers who are registered under A.B.O.C.W.W.B during hospitalization, partial disability, and for critical diseases such as Cancer, Heart attack (bypass surgery), Failure of kidney (kidney transplantation), Liver cirrhosis, etc. as per decision of the Board. Medical assistance shall be provided to the beneficiaries immediately after registration. 

Benefits
Medical Assistance: ₹1,000/- per day for the first 5 days hospitalized + ₹200/- each for the remaining days of hospitalized subject to maximum ₹20,000/-.
Registered beneficiaries also avail of partial disability benefits of ₹25,000/-, ₹50,000/-, ₹75,000/- and ₹1.50 Lakhs on the percentage of disability upto 25%, upto 50%, upto 80% and more than 80% respectively.
Financial assistance of ₹1.50 Lakh for critical diseases such as Cancer, Heart attack (bypass surgery), Failure of the kidney (kidney transplantation), Liver cirrhosis, etc. shall be given to registered beneficiaries as per the decision of the Board.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Assam.
The applicant should be engaged in any building & other construction work.
The construction worker should be registered with the Assam Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have an active membership with the Board.
The worker who is hospitalized or has partial disability due to an accident or is suffering from critical diseases such as cancer, heart attack, failure of kidney, etc., can avail of the benefits under the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Online - Via CSCs
Registration Process under Assam Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board:
Step 01: The eligible building & other construction workers can submit an online application through the official website: https://abocwwb.assam.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Registration Page for New Worker’ and a registration page will open. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the required documents.
Step 03: After filling out the form, a payment option shall then prompt to allow the applicant to make the payment using UPI-based modes/Cards/net banking or even Challan.
Post-Registration Process:
Step 01: The registering officer shall be notified of the applications successfully submitted and the Registering officer shall scrutinize the applications.
Step 02: The Registering Officer shall arrange for a scrutiny committee meeting every 15 days and place all applications received.
Step 03: The committee may recommend for approval, reject, or query the application. In case of queries, an SMS shall be sent to the applicant with a brief on the query. The applicant may re-upload the requisite documents as per the query raised by the Registering officer.
Notification to the worker through SMS; ID generation:
Applications if approved shall be notified through SMS and ID card shall be generated automatically for approved applications.
The applicant shall be notified for each stage such as queries, rejection, and allied.

Application Process to apply under the scheme:
Step 01: Only active registered construction workers may login in through ID No./registered phone number and apply through the portal. https://abocwwb.assam.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page of the portal, click on ‘Login Now’ and enter the Mobile Number or User ID. OTP received on the registered mobile number should be entered to complete the login.
Step 03: The individual console of the applicant gets opened with various functions such as detail updating, Fees due, and benefits eligible.
Step 04: Click on ‘Benefit’ and select the applicable scheme under the benefit and the portal redirects to an online application form specific to the scheme.
Step 05: The applicant may fill up the application with all mandatory fields and upload the necessary documents.
Step 06: The applicant submits the application form and a tracking/reference number is generated as a future reference for the applicant.
Post-Application Process:
Step 01: Successfully submitted applications pop up in the concerned Officers console. The officer may assign a subordinate to make verifications through the portal.
Step 02: Subsequent to preliminary verification, the application is placed in the scrutiny committee for detailed checks.
Step 03: Minutes of the Scrutiny Committee meeting get uploaded and Forwarded to the H.O.
Step 04: Applications/ Pops up in the Officer’s Console of Head Office. Officer assigns to the Assistant concerned and allotted with the District concerned.
Step 05: The assistant processes the application through PFMS. Account details get auto-verified in PFMS.
Step 06: On successful PFMS verification, Print Advice is generated through PFMS.
Step 07: Approving authority approves for disbursement of the benefit through PFMS.
(User Manual)
Documents Required
Documents required for Registration under A.B.O.C.W.W.B:
Passport size photograph (Applicant and Nominee)
Proof of Age/DOB
Copy of Aadhaar Card
Copy of Voter ID Card
Bank passbook first page
Experience Certificate/Employers Certificate (90 days working record to check eligibility)
Completely filled Nomination Form
Completely filled Registration Form
Any other relevant documents
Documents required for Grant of Scheme:
ABOCWWB ID Card
Attested Copy of ID Card
Copy of Payslip of Account Pay book Showing Monthly Contribution Deposited
Accident report from the Employer/Principal Employer/Local Police Authority
Bank passbook first page
All documents of treatment in the Government Hospital
Photo of the part of the person affected due to the accident
Percentage of Disability Certificate from the Appropriate Authority
Any other relevant documents
