Scheme for Margin Money Grant to Nano Units
Kerala
EnterpriseEntrepreneurFinancial AssistanceMargin MoneyNano Unit
Details
The scheme “Margin Money Grant to Nano Units” is a loan-linked scheme operated by the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Government of Kerala. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to Nano units in the State, engaged in manufacturing, job work, and service activity having any type of value addition. 
Objectives:
The objective of the scheme is to promote/incentivize deserving entrepreneurs in setting up Nano enterprises within the State through Margin Money loans to Nano units for loan-linked projects. 
Project Cost: The Project cost under this scheme shall include the following-
Cost of land and its development including documentation charges. The cost of land and its development shall not exceed 10% of the project cost.
Cost of building. This shall not exceed 25% of the project cost.
Plant & Machinery, equipment including all accessories, tools, jigs, fixtures, essential office equipment and furniture, lab equipment, pollution control devices, and generators.
Electrification.
Preliminary and pre-operative expenses which shall include Registration charges of the firm, engineering drawings, cost of the project report, Technical know-how, and cost of technical supervision during the implementation period. However, these preliminary and pre-operative expenses shall not exceed 10 % of the project cost.
Allowance for cost escalation (contingencies). The contingency allowance shall not exceed 10% of the cost of the item for which it is meant.
Working Capital. The working capital shall not exceed 40% of the project cost or one working cycle, whichever is lower.

Benefits
1. Units with project costs up to ₹10 Lakhs will be covered in the scheme.
2. Margin Money Grant of 30% to 40% of the Total Project cost according to the category of the applicant.
3. Women, Youth (Age between 18 and 40), Differentially-Abled Persons, Ex-Servicemen, and persons belonging to the SC/ST category will be eligible for a 10% additional Grant.
4. The maximum limit of margin money grant under the scheme shall be ₹4 lakhs per unit as follows.
a. Loan given by financial institution/KFC/Co-operative bank: Minimum 40 % of the project cost
b. Promoter’s contribution: Minimum 30 % of the project cost
c. Margin money grand by Industries department: 30 % of the project cost limited to a maximum of 3 lakhs
d. In case of special categories MMG will be 40 % of the project cost limited to a maximum of 4 lakhs and promoter’s contribution shall be 20%.
Financial Assistance:
Category Loan from Financial Institution (Minimum) Beneficiary Contribution (Minimum) Margin Money Grant (Maximum)
General 40% 30% 30%
Special 40% 20% 40%
Note: The assistance under the scheme shall be released to the eligible entrepreneur by bank on a pro-rata basis.
Eligibility
All new Nano proprietary enterprises in manufacturing/food processing and job works and units engaged in the service sector having any type of value addition, whose project cost includes fixed capital and working capital up to 10 lakhs are eligible for assistance under the scheme.
The unit shall not have availed any grant assistance earlier under any schemes of the Government of India & Government of Kerala or Local Self Government Department.
Note 01: Preference is given to special categories such as women, handicapped persons, ex-servicemen, and persons belonging to SC/ST.
Note 02: Youth entrepreneurs up to the age of 40 are also given priority under the scheme.
Note 03: 30% of the beneficiaries under the scheme shall be women entrepreneurs.
Note 04: Industrial units which receive the assistance will be under obligation to remain working continuously for three years from the date of receipt of the grant. However, it is necessary that a unit shall be a working one as of the date of release of the assistance.
Obligation of an applicant:
The applicant shall provide all required details and declare such information as to be true.
The applicant shall provide clarifications of further details sought by the recommending/ sanctioning authority.
The applicant shall allow inspection or verification of any details mentioned in the application including plant and machinery and all other assets if so required by recommending/sanctioning authority.
Applicants shall produce originals of any important documents if so required by the recommending/ sanctioning authority for verification including:
Title deed of land/land tax receipt if any/Lease agreement/rent agreement as the case may be.
Ownership Certificate of the building if any.
Invoice or bill of Plant and machinery.
The applicant shall execute the requisite legal agreement online and if required on paper as and when the proposal is approved for implementation and furnish the signed hard copy subsequently via post or otherwise.
The applicant shall utilize the amount received only in the manner agreed upon.
The applicant shall operate the unit as stipulated in the agreement in which the quantum of support received, failing which the assistance shall be resumed by restoring the provisions of the Kerala Revenue Recovery Act.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 01: Application can be submitted online through the Official website of the Directorate of Industries & Commerce, Government of Kerala. The applicant needs to visit the official website.
Step 02: The applicant may select the scheme “One Family One Enterprise” from the available Online Services listed on the home page and click on the “Apply Now” option. Clicking “Apply Now” redirects to the Login Page, if the new user uses the “Registration” option and if already registered use the ‘Login’ option.
Step 03: A new user can register by filling in his/her details and after successful registration, the user can login.
Step 04: After successful login, the applicant may fill out the application form.
Step 05: After filling out the application form completely and then click on ‘Submit’.
Documents Required
1. Project Report
2. Title Deed of Land/ Land Tax Receipt if applicable
3. Ownership Certificate of the building if applicable
4. Registered Lease Deed or Rent Deed in such cases
5. Proforma Invoice/Quotation of plant, machinery and electrification
6. Valuation of approved Engineer, Chattered Engineer for Civil Construction
7. Sanction letter from financial institution/Bank if any
8. Any other document as demanded by the recommending/sanctioning authority 
