AICTE e-Shodh Sindhu Scheme (eSS)
Ministry of Education
ASCEASMEBentham ScienceScopusSubscriptions Of E-ResourcesWeb Of Science
Details
Launched by the All India Council for Technical Education, AICTE e-Shodh Sindhu Scheme (eSS) provides  subscriptions of e-Resources like Web of Science, Scopus, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) and Bentham Science to institutions.
Objective:
Facilitating access to e-Resource to the students, faculty and researchers, a new to augment the culture of research in the institution and overall quality of technical education.

Benefits
Benefits: Subscriptions of e-Resources like Web of Science, Scopus, ASME, ASCE and Bentham Science to institutions.

Duration of Subscriptions: Initially for one calendar year, renewable for further year on the basis of usage by institute and fulfilments of other essential eligibility criteria.
Eligibility
AICTE approved Government/ Government-aided institutes.
The institute must have a digital library network having internet bandwidth (32 Mbps) and Wi-Fi connectivity with one or more static IP address.
The proposed coordinator must be full-time regular faculty with at least 10 year of experience in teaching and research with publications to his/her credit. The institute should also identify a co-coordinator who must be a faculty with at least 7 year of experience in teaching and research.
The institute must have PG Course in:
 Mechanical Engineering, if applies for ASME.
 Civil Engineering, if applies for ASCE.
 Pharmacy, if applies for Bentham Science.
 Any discipline, if applies for Web of Science/ Scopus.
Application Process
Offline
 Download the Application form for E-Shodh Sindhu Scheme.
Fill in the required information.
Verify that every page of the application form has signature and stamp of the Institute’s Head.
Attach all the below mentioned essential documents along with the filled application form.
Kindly ensure all the information is correct and then sent the Application form along with all the essential documents through registered post/speed post to:
Advisor (IDC),
Institutional Development Cell,
All India Council for Technical Education,
Nelson Mandela Marg, Vasant Kunj,
New Delhi-110070 

When to Apply:  Applications are invited in the month of October-November every year.

NOTE: Only application received through registered post/speed post will be considered, no applications will be entertained through email.

Helpdesk:
For Scheme related information:
 Email address: essidc@aicte-india.org
 Phone Number: (011) 29581313
Technical Information:
 Email address: it2idc@aicte-india.org
 Phone Number: (011) 29581334
Documents Required
First time Submission:
AICTE's Approval Letter for current year.
National Basketball Association (NBA) Accredited Approval Letter.
Details of number of publications in last three years.
Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) Documents.
Details of Ph.D. qualified Faculty.
Details of consultancy project completed in last three years.
Details of research project completed in last three years.
Details of professors in the institute.
 For Renewal of subscriptions:
The following documents are required to be submitted by the institute in the month of October every year for renewal of subscription to e-Resources:
Proof of usage of e-Resources (from 1st January to 30th September).
Feedback of Principal/ Director, Coordinator, Co-Coordinator and faculty members in prescribed proforma.
Request & undertaking for renewal of subscriptions for subsequent year.
