Assistance under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act
Puducherry
CompensationRehabilitationReliefScheduled Caste
Details
The scheme “Assistance under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide immediate relief to the victims of atrocities who are from Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes.

Benefits
Payment of Relief, Compensation for Loss, and Rehabilitation.
Eligibility
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should have been affected by an atrocity.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate.
Aadhaar Card.
Caste Certificate.
Copy of FIR.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph of the Applicant.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
