Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme for the Wards of States/UTs Police Personnel
Ministry Of Home Affairs
Higher TechnicalPolice PersonnelProfessional EducationScholarshipWards
Details
The “Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme (PMSS) for the Wards of States/UTs Police Personnel” is a scholarship scheme which was introduced by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India during the academic session 2019-20 to encourage higher technical & professional education for the dependent wards of States/UTs Police Personnel who are martyred during Terror/Naxal attacks.
Number of Scholarship:
A total of 500 scholarships will be given to the wards of State Police Personnel who are martyred during Terror/Naxal attacks in equal numbers to the Boys and Girls (i.e. 250 for boys and 250 for girls).

Benefits
The benefits under the scheme is a follows:
Amount of Scholarship:
• ₹3,000/- per month for girls.
• ₹2,500/- per month for boys 
Note: The above scholarship amount is to be paid annually after selection @ ₹36,000/- to each girl & ₹30,000/- to each boy.
Duration of Scholarship:
Up to 5 years (depending upon the duration of the course being pursued by the applicant and as approved by the respective regulatory body).
Eligibility
Dependent wards of States/UTs Police Personnel who are martyred during Terror/Naxal attacks are eligible under this category subject to the following:-
Pursuing first professional degree programme in the field of Engineering, Medicine, Dental, Veterinary, BBA, BCA, B. Pharma, B.SC (Nursing, Agriculture, etc.), MBA and MCA, etc. in accordance with the guidelines as mentioned in Para- 8 (B).
Having a minimum of 60% marks in Minimum Entry Qualification (MEQ) i.e. 10+2/Diploma/Graduation or equivalent in case of a new applicant. (OR) For applicants applying under the renewal category, it is mandatory to pass each subsequent academic year of the professional courses being pursued by them with a minimum of 50% marks.
A grace period of one year only for cases, where there is a delay on the part of the candidate for submission of application for renewal of scholarship may be entertained.
Note:
Wards of deceased State Police Force personnel Martyred in terror/Naxalite violence will be considered.
There will be no rank restriction for the dependent wards of States/UTs Police personnel who are martyred during Terror/Naxal attacks.
This scholarship is admissible for only two Children per family and should be ensured by the beneficiaries as well as by the respective States/UTs Govt.
The applicants irrespective of his /her marital status are eligible for PMSS.
Minimum Entry Qualification (MEQ):
For being eligible for the Scholarship under PMSS, an applicant should have secured a minimum of 60% marks in MEQ i.e. 10+2 / Diploma / Graduation as the case may be. MEQ for entry to various professional courses differs. For example, MEQ for MBBS is 10+2 whereas for BE/B.Tech, it is 10+2/Diploma. It is graduation for B. Ed and MBA.
Note:
Wards admitted in 2nd year of technical/professional Bachelor Degree Course (BE/B. Tech etc) through lateral entry after completion of Diploma courses are eligible for PMSS.
In case of applicant passed the XII exam from CBSE, marks obtained in the best of five subjects out of 500 will be considered for calculating the percentage of marks in MEQ.
Courses applicable under PMSS :
Only First professional degree courses like BE, B Tech, BDS, MBBS, B.Ed., BBA, BCA, B Pharma, B.Sc (Nursing, Agriculture, etc.) duly recognized by the respective Government Regulatory Bodies, such as All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Medical Council of India (MCI), University Grant Commission (UGC).
Details of professional degree courses applicable for PMSS are mentioned at Appendix – I.
Scholarship for Integrated Courses:
The PMSS is restricted to first Professional Degree Courses only. It is applicable for B.Ed but not for BA+B.Ed. In the case of integrated ME/M.Tech/ M.Pharma, the scholarship will be given for an initial three/four years as the case may be.
Application Process
Online
Online submission for the scholarship can be done through the website of the National Scholarship Portal with the required documents: https://scholarships.gov.in/ 
Registration for New Applicant
Step 01: Open the official NSP website and click on 'New Registration' under Applicant Corner.
Step 02: Read the Instruction /Guidelines, provide the undertaking by clicking on the Check box then click on Continue.
Step 03: Start the registration by providing the required details.
 Registered Applicant
Step 01: Open the official NSP website and click on 'Fresh Application' under Applicant Corner
Step 02: Login with your application ID & password.
Step 03: Select the Scholarship.
Step 04: Fill out the applicant form.
Step 05: Upload the required documents and Submit.
Letter from Hon’ble Prime Minister:
All applicants selected under the new category will be given personal letters from the Hon’ble Prime Minister in appropriate language.
Payment of Scholarship:
The Scholarship amount under PMSS for applicants selected under fresh and renewal categories would be credited/transferred directly into the Bank accounts of the selected applicants through the Public Finance Management System (PFMS) under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Programme of the Government.
Important Instruction:
It will be the sole responsibility of the applicant to make sure that he/she is eligible to apply and fulfils all the conditions prescribed for the scholarship.
If the in-eligibility of the applicant is detected at any stage, before or after the applying for scholarship scheme, or during at any stage by verification by authorities, his/her scholarship will be cancelled without any notice. Disciplinary action will be taken against him/her, further, he/she will be blacklisted to opt for a scholarship sponsored by the Central Government for a period of five years.
Incomplete application form and failure to attach the requisite documents will lead to the rejection of the application.
All the requisite information should be clearly mentioned in the respective column. The information once is generated on the part of applicants, no change/amendment will be accepted.
The mobile number and Email address of applicants or wards of States/UTs Police personnel is mandatory so as to inform the candidate of any discrepancies or developments through SMS and Email.
Documents Required
For Fresh Applicant:
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
A certificate issued by the State Govt. concerned indicating that the State/UTs Police personnel was killed in terror/naxal violence is required to be uploaded. This is a mandatory requirement for applying scholarship under PMSS.
Applicants are required to upload duly attested scanned copy of the Mark sheet MEQ i.e. XII/Diploma/Graduation or equivalent
Disability Certificate, if applicable 
Death Certificate
Bank account details
Any other relevant documents, as required
For Renewal:
The certificate issued by the educational institution 
Note: Submission of bank particulars including the account number of the nationalized bank by the applicant duly seeded with an Aadhaar Number is mandatory.
