National Grassroots Innovation and Outstanding Traditional Knowledge Awards
Ministry Of Science And Technology
AwardsCitizen Of IndiaNationalScienceTechnology
Details
National Innovation Foundation (NIF)-India, an autonomous body of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, invites entries of unaided technological innovations and traditional knowledge developed at grassroots by an individual (Citizen of India) or group. The innovations can be in the fields of agriculture, health, energy, household or utility, transportation, livestock, etc. leading to the reduction in drudgery, livelihood generation, development of plant varieties or herbal remedies for human/ animal/ farming problems, or any other low cost sustainable green technologies. These should be unaided/ unsupervised and an outcome of one's creativity, without any technical support from external agencies. Creative ideas for innovative technologies/ techniques to solve persistent problems of society, which may not have been developed into prototypes, may also be submitted.
 For the 14th National Biennial Competition for Green Grassroots Unaided Technological Innovations, Ideas & Outstanding Traditional Knowledge, the entries can be submitted from April 1, 2023, to March 31, 2025, which is the last date for submission.

There are six levels of awards: 
Life Time Achievement Award (Conferred to an outstanding innovator with demonstrated lifelong creativity).
National First Award.
National Second Award.
National Third Award.
State Award.
Consolation Award.

No. of Awardees
Lifetime Achievement Award – 1
National Awards - 10-15 including all the three categories National First/ Second/ Third
State & Consolation awards – 15-20

The number of awards may vary subject to the submission of eligible applications of innovations during the competition period. If there are no eligible innovations, awards in one or more categories may not be given. 

Benefits
Life Time Achievement Award – ₹7,50,000/-, Trophy, Certificate.
National First Award – ₹5,00,000/-, Trophy, Certificate.
National Second Award – ₹3,00,000/-, Trophy, Certificate.
National Third Award – ₹1,00,000/-, Trophy, Certificate.
State Award – ₹50,000/-, Trophy, Certificate.
Consolation Award - ₹10,000/-, Trophy, Certificate.
Eligibility
Uneducated or school dropout.
School students (up to class 12) or those out of school and up to 17-18 years of age).
ITI/ Polytechnic diploma students or Diploma holders.
Individual innovators with no professional/ technical training or science/ technology related education.
Individuals affiliated with any formal institution and without duties related to Scientific, Technological (S&T)/ Technical or Research and Development (R&D) related work.
Retired individual innovators with no science/ technology related education and without professional experience of S&T/ R&D activities.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step-1: Visit the official website.
Step-2: Click on the Registration button.
Step-3: Choose type Individual or  Organization.
Step-4.1: Under Individual category provide the following details. 
               - Name as per Aadhaar/Valid Identity Proof.
               - Date of Birth.
               - Nominator/Applicant Type.
               - Mobile No.
               - Email ID.
               - Aadhaar Number.
Step-4.2: Under Organization category provide the following details.
               - Type of Organization.
               - Name of the Authorized Person as per Aadhaar/Valid Identity Proof
               - Date of Birth.
               - Brief Description about the Organization (100 Words)
               - Designation
               - Mobile No.
               - Email ID.
               - Aadhaar Number.
Step-5: Submit.
            Apply:
Step-1: Visit the official website.
Step-2: Click on login button on portal and login using the credentials. 
Step-3: From the list of awards, select "National Grassroots Innovation and Outstanding Traditional Knowledge Awards 2025", then click "Nominate / Apply Now".
Step-4: On the next page, fill in all the mandatory fields in the online application form, and then click "Submit".
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Photograph
Proof of Age
Proof of Address
Proof of Educational Qualification (Passing Certificate, Marksheet)
Proof of Professional Experience
Details of work done in the last three years in the field
Details of Awards and Honours Received
