Rashtriya Vigyan Puraskar
Ministry Of Science And Technology
AwardsDevelopmentScienceScientistsTechnology
Details
Science and Technology are essential tools for development of the society. Scientists play a very important role in selflessly driving the systematic quest for truth and the development of new knowledge. They are the backbones of the nation who contribute tirelessly to the society's development. The exemplary and outstanding contributions of scientists need to be recognized so that they can serve as an inspiration to others.

Objective
The objective of the Rashtriya Vigyan Puraskar (RVP) is to recognise the notable and inspiring contribution made by the scientists, technologists and innovators individually or in teams in various fields of science, technology and technology- led innovation. The RVP shall be one of the highest recognition in the field of science, technology and innovation in India. Scientists/ technologists / innovators working in government, private sector organizations or individuals working outside any organisation, who have made distinguished contributions in terms of path-breaking research or innovation or discovery in any fields of science, technology or technology- led innovation shall be eligible for the awards. People of Indian origin staying abroad with exceptional contributions benefiting the Indian communities or society shall also be eligible for the awards


The awards shall be given in the following four categories
a) Vigyan Ratna (VR) award to be awarded to recognize lifetime achievements & contributions made in any field of science and technology.
b) Vigyan Shri(VS)award to be awarded to recognize distinguished contributions in any field of science and technology.
c) Vigyan Yuva- Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar (VY-SSB) award to be awarded to recognize & encourage young scientists who made an exceptional contribution in any field of science and technology.
d) VigyanTeam (VT) award to be awarded to a team comprising three or more scientists/researchers/innovators who have made an exceptional contribution working in a team in any field of science and technology.

No. of Awardees:
Name of Award Max. No. of Awards 
Vigyan Ratna (VR) 03
Vigyan Shri (VS) 25
Vigyan Yuva - Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar (VY-SSB) 25
Vigyan Team (VT) 03

Ceremony Details
a) These awards shall be announced on the National Technology Day (11th May) every year.
b) The Award Ceremony for all categories of awards shall be held every year on the National Space Day on 23rdAugust.
c) The Hon'ble President of India / The Hon'ble Vice President of India may confer the Awards.
d) The Award Ceremony may be organised every year in Vigyan Bhavan or at an alternative suitable venue.
e) All these awards would commence from the year 2024.

Benefits
The awardees shall be presented a Sanad (certificate) signed by the President of India & a medallion. A commemorative brochure, containing the citation and photograph of the awardees shall also be released on the day of the ceremony.
 In case of posthumous award, the decoration of the award shall be received by the ‘next of kin’ of such awardee.
The decoration to such persons who are not able to attend the award ceremony due to personal reasons (including indisposition, preoccupation, etc.) the award shall be deemed to have been conferred on such a person. No other person (including the spouse/next of kind) should be allowed to receive the award on behalf of the absentee awards except in posthumous cases.
Eligibility
All scientists, technologists and innovators working in any field of science in government or private organizations who have contributed or done pathbreaking research, technology led innovation or discovery in any fields of science or development of innovative technologies/ significant societal impact shall be eligible for the award.
 Scientists, technologists and innovators of Indian origin abroad with exceptional contributions benefitting the Indian communities or society at large shall also be eligible.
The Rashtriya Vigyan Puraskar shall be given in the following 13 domains:
Physics.
Chemistry.
Biological Sciences.
Mathematics & Computer Science.
Earth Science.
Medicine.
Engineering Sciences.
Agricultural Science.
Environmental Science.
Technology & innovation.
Atomic Energy.
Space Science and Technology.
Others.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step-1: Visit the official website.
Step-2: Click on the Registration button.
Step-3: Choose type Individual or  Organization.
Step-4.1: Under Individual category provide the following details. 
               - Name as per Aadhaar/Valid Identity Proof.
               - Date of Birth.
               - Nominator/Applicant Type.
               - Mobile No.
               - Email ID.
               - Aadhaar Number.
Step-4.2: Under Organization category provide the following details.
               - Type of Organization.
               - Name of the Authorized Person as per Aadhaar/Valid Identity Proof
               - Date of Birth.
               - Brief Description about the Organization (100 Words)
               - Designation
               - Mobile No.
               - Email ID.
               - Aadhaar Number.
Step-5: Submit.
            Apply:
Step-1: Visit the official website.
Step-2: Click on login button on portal and login using the credentials. 
Step-3: From the list of awards, select scheme name, then click "Nominate / Apply Now".
Step-4: On the next page, fill in all the mandatory fields in the online application form, and then click "Submit".
Documents Required
Nomination Form.
Curriculum Vitae (CV) of the nominee.
Detailed description of the nominee's contribution.
Supporting documents (research papers, patents, awards certificates, testimonials, letters of recommendation, etc., depending on the specific nomination).
Aadhaar Card.
Photograph.
