Nari Niketans
Jammu and Kashmir
DestituteRehabilitationShelterSocial WelfareWidow
Details
The "Nari Niketans" were established in 1976 by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir wherein deserted /destitute ladies/ widows having no means of livelihood are given admissions. There are seven Nari Niketan in Jammu & Kashmir, i.e. in Jammu, Udhampur, Kathua, Doda, Rajouri, and two Nari Niketans in Poonch, with a total intake capacity of 280. The inmate shall remain in the institution till they are rehabilitated/get married/covered under any schemes for employment and self-employment. The beneficiary shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu & Kashmir can apply for this scheme.

Benefits
The inmates are provided care and protection in the institutions. 
Besides food, shelter, bedding & clothing are also provided. 
For school-going destitute girls free education is provided in addition to other facilities. 
The children accompanying the mothers will be entitled to admission subject to the condition that male children after they attain the age of 8 years shall be transferred to Bal Ashrams.
The inmate shall remain in the institution till they are rehabilitated/get married/ covered under any schemes for employment and self-employment.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Jammu & Kashmir.
The applicant should be a Female.
The applicant should be deserted /destitute / widow.
The applicant should not have any means of livelihood.
The children accompanying the mothers will also be entitled to admission subject to the condition that male children after they attain the age of 8 years shall be transferred to Bal Ashrams.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.

Post-Application Processes:
Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant, the DSWO shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The superintendent shall admit/discharge any inmate with the approval of the District Social Welfare Officer concerned and the Deputy Director of Administration, Directorate of Social Welfare Jammu.

Check Application Status:
The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme.
Documents Required
3 Passport-Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State/UT of Jammu & Kashmir.
Proof of Identity.
Aadhaar Card.
Death Certificate of the Husband (in case the applicant is a widow).
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc) of Self or of the Guardian.
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
Proof of Age of the Child (Birth Certificate) (in case of children accompanying the mothers).
