Grant of Financial Assistance to Poor Scheduled Caste Pregnant & Lactating Women
Puducherry
ChildFinancial AsisstanceHospitalInfantPregnantScheduled CasteWoman
Details
The scheme “Grant of Financial Assistance to Poor Scheduled Caste Pregnant & Lactating Women” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide assistance for the well-being of Pregnant and Lactating mothers and their children.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹12,000/- as follows:
The pre-natal assistance shall be ₹ 2,000 in cash per month for three months prior to the month of delivery.
The post-natal assistance shall be ₹ 2,000 in cash per month for three months following delivery. 
* The grant of financial assistance is made available only for 2 deliveries.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should belong to the Union Territory of Pondicherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than 3 years.
The applicant should be from Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a woman.
The applicant should be pregnant.
The applicant should apply from 6 months of pregnancy and within 3 months from the date of delivery.
The annual income of the applicant and spouse should not exceed ₹ 2,00,000/-.
The grant of financial assistance is made available only for 2 deliveries.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate.
Aadhaar Card.
Caste Certificate.
Recent passport-size photograph.
Discharge Summary/ Birth Certificate.
Certificate Issued by the Medical Superintendent of Maternity Hospital/Medical Officer in-charge of the Primary Health Centre, Sub-centre or Any Other Peripheral Maternity/Health Centre of the Union Territory of Pondicherry. 
Ration Card.
Bank Passbook.
