Grant-in-aid to Non-governmental Organisations
Puducherry
AgedChildrenMaintenance CostNGOsVulnerable Persons
Details
The scheme “Grant-in-aid to Non-governmental Organisations" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to cover 90% of estimated maintenance cost for the registered NGOs running residential homes for the children, aged, and vulnerable persons.

Benefits
90% of estimated maintenance cost.

NOTE: Contact the authorities below in case of delay in disbursal of benefits:
Puducherry: The Director, Directorate of Social Welfare, Saradhambal Nagar, Ellaipillaichavadhy, Puducherry. 
Karaikal: The Collector, Karaikal.
Mahe/Yanam: The Regional Administrator, Mahe/Yanam.
Eligibility
The NGO should have a sound financial position. 
The NGO should have facilities and resources for running the residential homes. 
The NGO should be non-sectarian offering services to its beneficiaries irrespective of religion, caste, colour or creed. 
The NGO should not be run for profit of any individual or a body of individuals. 
The NGO should be free from corrupt practices.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Registration Certificate/License
MOU/Bye law
Audit Report
Utilization Certificate
Annual Report
