State Technical Scholarship for ST Student
Nagaland
Scheduled TribeScholarshipSTStudentTechnical
Details
The “State Technical Scholarship for ST Student” is a scholarship scheme, implemented by the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Nagaland. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to students of Scheduled Tribe Communities who are pursuing Diploma/Degree/Post Graduated/course in Engineering Institutes recognized by All India Council for Technical Education. Assistance is also provided to students who are pursuing UG or PG in Forestry courses.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance/scholarships will be given to students according to the course/programme in which they are enrolled.
Scholarship shall be provided for a maximum period of 3 years for Diploma, 4 years for Degree (B.E/B.Tech.), and 2 years for (M.E/M.Tech).
Eligibility
A student should fulfil the following criteria to be eligible for this Scholarship:
The applicant/student should be an inhabitant of Nagaland.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Tribe Community.
The annual income of the applicant’s parents from all sources must not exceed ₹6 lakhs.
The applicant pursuing Diploma/Degree/Post Graduated/ course in Engineering Institutes recognized by the All India Council for Technical Education can apply.
The applicants pursuing UG or PG in Forestry courses are eligible for this scheme.
Applicant must not be an employee of any government/semi-government establishment.
Note 01: Applicant pursuing courses other than mentioned in Sl. No. 2 & 3 are not eligible for this scheme.
Note 02: If any documents are found to be false/fraud or a candidate availing more than 1 (one) scholarship schemes in the same academic year the candidate shall be disqualified/debarred under state Technical Scholarship.
Application Process
Online
Online - Via CSCs
All eligible students shall apply through the Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in
Step 01: Registration
To register, visit the official Common Scholarship Portal of Nagaland: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in 
Create an Account: If the applicant is a new user, click on the "Register" option. Provide your MOBILE Number linked with AADHAAR to get an OTP and verify the mobile. Once Mobile is verified, provide essential details such as your name, email address and create a unique password. Click on the "Register" button to proceed.
Step 02: Login
Login to Your Account: Once your mobile number is verified, log in to your scholarship account using the credentials the applicant created during registration.
Step 03: Fill in the User Profile
Personal Details: Update your personal information, including name, date of birth, gender, category, Bank Account Details, etc.
Step 04: Apply for Scholarship
Select your Scholarship Scheme, Institution, Institution State, Institution, District and proceed.
Academic Information: Provide details about your educational background, such as school/college name, course, year of study, etc.
Step 05: Upload Documents
Upload Required Documents: Depending on the scholarship applicants are applying for, applicants will need to upload supporting documents. Commonly required documents include:
Step 06: Verify and Submit
Review Your Application: Carefully review all the information the applicants have entered and the documents the applicants have uploaded. Make sure everything is accurate and complete.
Submit Application: Once applicants are satisfied with your application, click on the "Submit" button.
Step 07: Track Your Application
Application Tracking: After submitting your application, the applicant can track its status on the portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/
Log in to your account and check for updates on your application's status regularly.
Note 01: In case errors are found after submission, please delete the application and Re-Submit.
Note 02: In case of any issues kindly email the helpdesk with details of Registered Mobile Number, previous years Application ID (if applicable), Applicant query, and or any Screenshot/Error Message. Kindly allow us 24 hrs (working days) to check and respond to applicant emails.
Note 03: Incomplete entries, wrong entries, not entering the correct particulars in the given column in this e-form and not furnishing the required certificate, documents shall be rejected. Correction/rectification after submission will not be entertained.
Instructions and General Information:
The Department will not be responsible for non-receipt of scholarship amount due to wrong/inactive bank account number/details provided by the applicant
Applicant is warned that if he/she gives false statements/ declarations/documents etc. or otherwise obtained a scholarship through fraudulent means, he/she will be blacklisted and debarred from getting a scholarship under this scheme or any other scholarship schemes for the entire period of his/her studies. The scholarship amount if already paid will also be recovered.
Incomplete/wrong entries in the e-form or incomplete enclosure of necessary documents will be subject to rejection. Correction/rectification after submission will not be entertained.
No hard copy submission is required to be submitted to this office. All the necessary documents that have been provided in the e-form should be uploaded by the candidates must be legible and clear, without which your application will be subjected to rejection. 
Documents Required
Recent passport photograph with clear background:
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Admit Card and Mark sheet of previous course level i.e. B-Tech or equivalent marks-sheet for PG fresh students
Admit Card and Mark sheet of previous course level i.e. 10+2 or equivalent marks-sheet (lateral entry) for Degree fresh students
Admit Card and Mark sheet of previous course level i.e. 10th or 12th for Diploma fresh students
Schedule Tribe Certificate
Indigenous Inhabitant Certificate
Admission Fee Receipt (Xerox copy)
Bank Account Passport (front page Xerox)
Income Certificate of parents/guardian
For Renewal applicants:
Recent passport photograph with a clear background
Previous semester mark sheet for Degree/P.G renewal students
Previous semester mark sheet for Diploma renewal students
Admission Fee Receipt (Xerox copy)
Bank Account Passbook (Front page Xerox)
Note 01: Bank Account must be that of the applicant. Application form will be rejected if the Bank Account is not of the applicant. In case of joint account, Account should be opened and in all such joint accounts, the applicant’s name should appear in the first page of the pass book.
Note 02: If students produce false Certificates pertaining to Annual Income of their parents, ST or Indigenous Certificates, the matter will be reported to State Government for necessary legal action.
