Grant of House Construction Subsidy to Scheduled Caste People
Puducherry
ConstructionHouseHousingSCScheduled CasteSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Grant of House Construction Subsidy to Scheduled Caste People” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the poor Scheduled Caste people, and other Economically backward class people, who meet the eligibility criteria, are provided house construction subsidy. 

Benefits
The subsidy amount of ₹4,00,000/- is granted in 3 Instalments as follows:
                       1st Installment of ₹1,50,000/- on possession of vacant house site.
                       2nd Installment of ₹1,50,000/-.
                       3rd Installment of ₹1,00,000/-.
The building materials worth ₹1,00,000/- will also be provided.
* The number of beneficiaries to be covered every year will be completed according to the physical target earmarked in the action Plan.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native or a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Pondicherry.
The applicant should not possess a house.
The applicant should be from Scheduled Caste or from Other Economically Backward Class.

For Scheduled Caste
The applicant should have a house site of an area of 450 sq.ft to build the house.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹2,00,000/-.

For Other Economically Backward Class
The applicant should have a house site granted by Adi Dravidar Welfare Department.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹24,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate.
Aadhar Card.
Bank Pass Book.
Caste Certificate.
Encumbrance Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Parent Document.
Photocopy of Plot / Vacant Land.
Plot proof.
Ration Card.
Recent passport-size photograph.
Site Map/ Land Mark.
Voter Card.
