Plant Protection including Integrated Pest Management Scheme
Meghalaya
AgricultureBio-pesticideFarmerIPMOrganic CropPest ManagementPlant Protection
Details
The “Plant Protection including Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Scheme” is a State Plan Scheme, which is implemented by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objective of the scheme is to mobilize and support farmers to use bio-pesticides and bio- agents for plant health management through the distribution of bio-pesticides and other IPM tools and through the sale of Sprayers and Plant Protection Equipment to encourage organic crop production.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Distribution of bio-pesticide and other IPM tools to farmers.
Sale of Sprayers and Plant Protection Equipment.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Free distribution of Bio-pesticides and other IPM tools.
50% subsidy sale on Plant Protection Equipment.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmers can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the relevant documents at the nearest office of the Agriculture Development Officer of a CD Block/Agriculture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
The bonafide farmers having sufficient available cultivable land shall be selected on a first come first served basis.
Whom to Contact:
District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts.
Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officers of the concerned sub-divisions.
District Training Officers, Tura/Shillong.
Agricultural Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity Proof
Documents proof of having sufficient available cultivable land
Any other document as required
