Visitor's Award
Ministry of Education
AwardsInnovationResearchStudent
Details
 Visitor's Award under the Department of Higher Education provided To encourage excellence through competition. These awards would help to promote healthy competition amongst Faculties/Students of the Central Universities and motivate them to adopt best practices from around the world in the pursuit of excellence.

Under the Visitor's Award, there are three categories: 
For Innovation.
For Research.
2.1. Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences.
2.2. Physical Sciences.
2.3. Biological Sciences.
 For Technology Development.

Who can nominate?
Vice Chancellor/Dean/ Director/Professor of nominee's University.

Selection Process
The selection committee will invite online nominations in the prescribed formats in the web portal. The selection committee will devise its procedure to select the awardees, which will be put in the relevant portal. A panel of awardees would be prepared by a Selection Committee for final selection by the President, in the capacity of Visitor of Central University.

Ceremony Details
The awards shall be presented by the President of India at the time of Annual Conference of the Vice Chancellors of Central Universities or in the Visitor’s Conference held annually.

Benefits
Citation and cash reward will be presented to the awardee. The total value of the cash reward will be ₹2,50,000/-
If there are two or more recipients, the cash reward is subject to the condition that, each awardee will receive a minimum of ₹1,00,000/-
Eligibility
All faculty members and students of all the Central Universities will be eligible for the Visitor’s Awards.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step-1: Visit the official website.
Step-2: Click on the Registration button.
Step-3: Choose the type Individual or  Organization.
Step-4.1: Under the Individual category provide the following details. 
               - Name as per Aadhaar/Valid Identity Proof.
               - Date of Birth.
               - Nominator/Applicant Type.
               - Mobile No.
               - Email ID.
               - Aadhaar Number.
Step-4.2: Under Organization category provide the following details.
               - Type of Organization.
               - Name of the Authorized Person as per Aadhaar/Valid Identity Proof
               - Date of Birth.
               - Brief Description about the Organization (100 Words)
               - Designation
               - Mobile No.
               - Email ID.
               - Aadhaar Number.
Step-5: Submit.
            Apply:
Step-1: Visit the official website.
Step-2: Click on login button on portal and login using the credentials. 
Step-3: From the list of awards, select scheme name, then click "Nominate / Apply Now".
Step-4: On the next page, fill in all the mandatory fields in the online application form, and then click "Submit".
Documents Required

1. Have a soft copy of your Photograph ready (maximum 1MB).
2. Once mobile numbers and emails are registered, they cannot be changed.
3. You can submit multiple applications in the same or different categories/subcategories.
4. Soft copies of the current resume, technical information, report of functional efficiency, and details of any external evaluation done should be kept ready beforehand in pdf format and size should not exceed 10MB each.
5. You will need to provide details like name, email, and contact number of two referees (one of whom shall be the Vice Chancellor of your University, and the other will be your Director/Dean/Professor familiar with your work) to whom your application will be forwarded for submission of their recommendation online.
6. A soft copy of the photograph (.jpeg) of the subject, if any, should not exceed 10MB.
7. A PowerPoint presentation should not be more than 5 slides and size must not exceed 10MB.
8. Video relating to entry in the form of a link.
9. Once submitted, an application cannot be edited or deleted. 
