Scheme of Internship for Post-Graduate/Research Students
Ministry Of Statistics and Programme Implementation
EducationInternshipStatisticsStudent
Details
The Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation (MoSPI) is implementing a scheme of Internship for Post-graduate/Research Students of Statistics/ Mathematical Statistics/Operations Research/ Economics/ Demography or any of the applied fields of Statistics of recognized Universities/Institutions during 2023-24. The scheme is as follows:
Aim, Objectives & Scope
To facilitate the students pursuing post-graduate/research in statistics to study and get familiarized with the prevailing system of Official Statistics in the Country.
To familiarize the interested and willing post-graduate/research students with the Official Statistical System of the Country, with specific reference to data collection, processing & analysis, publication and dissemination needs.
To create awareness amongst the students of Statistics/ Mathematical Statistics/ OperationsResearch/ Economics/ Demography or any of the applied fields of Statistics about the Indian Statistical Service and Subordinate Statistical Service.
To sensitize the students of Statistics/ Mathematical Statistics/ Operational Research/ Economics/ Demography or any of the applied fields of Statistics about choosing their career in the field of Statistics.
Number of Internships
The total available number of internships during 2023-24 would be 193.

Benefits
Remuneration
A token stipend of ₹10,000/- (consolidated) @ ₹5,000/- per month would be paid to the selected intern on successful completion of his /her internship, at the end of the internship period.
Stipend to interns would be transferred directly into their bank account only through electronic mode of funds transfer/Aadhaar Payments Bridge(APB)/Aadhaar Enabled Payment System(AEPS) by selection points and no cash payments would be made. 
Selected candidates should submit their bank account details after joining the internship.
A Certificate will be issued to the successful interns, upon completion of the internship, by the respective offices where they are attached.
The students opting for NSSO (FOD) Zonal/Regional Offices will be paid an additional amount of ₹250/- per day, so as to enable them to undertake Field Visits if required, which should not exceed a maximum of 10 days in the entire period of 2 months of internship.
Facilities
To facilitate the interns in the pursuit of their assignment, internship offices/centers would try their best to provide a minimum logistics support i.e. office space, with intercom facility and computer, with internet facility etc. However, interns may have to bring their own laptops if the situation demands so. 
For study material, the intern will have access to the literature available in the Library/Office and can interact with the concerned Division(s)/Officer through the guide, with whom they would be attached. Internship Centers will designate a guide/nodal officer for each intern allocated to them.
NOTE:-
No Travelling Allowance or Daily allowance etc. will be paid by the Ministry for joining the place of internship allotted to them or after the completion of the internship. 
The selected candidates have to make their own arrangements for their lodging, boarding and transport etc.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India and; 
He/She must be pursuing post-graduation/research from a recognized College/University/Research institute in Statistics/ Mathematical Statistics/Operational Research/Economics/Demography or any of the applied fields of Statistics.
Note:-
The internship will be for a period of 2 months from the date of joining. 
Each intern/student shall be required to submit report/paper (along with soft copy) at the end of the assignment, including inter-alia, his/her observations and suggestions, if any, regarding any possible improvement in the system.
Application Process
Online
Application:-
Step 1: Register on the National Career Service (NCS) Portal and keep NCS ID ready for filling application form. 
Step 2: Download application format in MS Excel File of "Group A" or "Group B". For accessing these form, please refer guidelines (Page no.16).
Step 3: Fill the application form in Excel File itself. Message displayed while moving cursor on a cell may be read carefully before filling information in that cell. 
Step 4: Take printout of the duly filled-in application form. On the printed form, affix your passport size recent colored photograph and sign the undertaking.
Step 5: The duly filled and signed application form along with the required (self-attested) documents should be sent through email to the concerned nodal offices/selection point given at Annex-I & II with a copy to training-mospi@nic.in with subject line “Application for Internship for Post-Graduate/Research Students – 2023-24”.
Note:-
In absence of filled-in MS Excel File with application form, the application would be rejected.
All internship related queries should be sent through email to the nodal officers of respective internship centers with subject line “Internship for Post-Graduate/ Research Students – 2023-24”.
Emails received with subject line other than as mentioned above may not be considered. 
Selection Process:-
The selection of the candidates will be done purely on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in graduation (excluding qualifying subject(s)) and allocation of internship office will be done taking into account the above selection criterion and the place option exercised by the candidates.
The selected candidates/applicants would be informed through e-mail besides displaying the list of selected interns on the website of the MoSPI in the case of Group “A” and notice board of the respective offices in the case of Group “B”.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph
Proof of Identity
Duly filled in and signed/attested application form.
Proof of the Latest Educational Qualification (Marksheets of the last 3 years) 
Self-attested copy of Identity Card issued during PG Course/Research or any other document showing that the applicant is Post Graduate/Research Student of Statistics/Mathematical Statistics/Operations Research/ Economics/Demography or any of the applied field of Statistics.
If not given on the application form itself, then a No-Objection Letter from the Institute/Head of Department where the applicant is pursuing study indicating the status of study (Class, Year, University etc.) shall be required.
NOTE 1: If marks are in CGPA, attach a document giving the conversion formula from CGPA to percentage.
NOTE 2: If the applicant wishes to incorporate any other relevant details, he/she may do so on an extra sheet to be attached.
NOTE 3: In the absence of a filled-in MS Excel File with the application form, the application would be rejected. 
