'Rent Subsidy for Sales Emporia Established by Handicrafts / Micro & Small Industries Emporium' under 'Marketing And Publicity'
Puducherry
BusinessHandicraftsMSMERentShowroomSubsidy
Details
The scheme 'Rent Subsidy for Sales Emporia Established by Handicrafts / Micro & Small Industries Emporium' under 'Marketing And Publicity'  was launched by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, financial support will be provided via the Industrial Associations, Handicrafts Societies and Recognized Institutions for promotion of Handicrafts, Coir, Jute, Micro and Small Industrial products, i.e. for acquiring suitable buildings/premises and providing infrastructure facilities for setting up of Sales emporia locally and in important cities in India.

Benefits
Rent subsidy to Sales Emporium/Showroom at the rate of 90% subsidy subject to maximum of ₹10, 000/- per month for three years. 
Financial assistances for providing infrastructure facilities to such buildings/premises.
75% of the expenses of infrastructure facilities / interior decoration works in the Sales Emporia buildings/premises to be borne under the scheme, subject to maximum of ₹1,50,000 or the actual whichever is less, for a minimum period of 3 years.
Eligibility
The applicant should own a Sales Emporium/Showroom in Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Proof of Possession of a Sales Emporium/Showroom in Puducherry.
Any Other Document as Required by the District Industries Centre.
