Shiksha Protsaahan Puraskaar yojana
Madhya Pradesh
AwardsEducationFinancialStudent
Details
The Shiksha Protsahan Puraskar Yojana (Shram Kalyan Mandal) is a scheme launched by the Madhya Pradesh government to provide financial assistance to the children of registered workers of the Madhya Pradesh Shram Kalyan Mandal for their higher education.

Benefits
General Graduate (B.A., B.Com, B.Sc., B.B.A.) : ₹10,000/-
 Engineering (B.E./B.Tech.) : ₹15,000/-
 M.B.B.S./ B.D.S. : ₹25,000/-
 Pharmacy, Ayurvedic, Homeopathic (U.G., P.G. Diploma) : ₹12,500/-
 Law Courses : ₹10,000/- 
General P.G. Courses (M.A, M.Com, M.Sc, MBA) : ₹10,000/- 
M.E/M.Tech : ₹11,500/-
Eligibility
The worker must be employed in an industrial unit or establishment located within the jurisdiction of the Madhya Pradesh Shram Kalyan Mandal.
Up to two children of such workers who have studied in educational institutions of Madhya Pradesh are eligible for the award.
The children must have secured at least 70% marks in their graduation, post-graduation, and BE examinations.
For MBBS students, the minimum required marks is 60% in their previous year's examination.
Application Process
Offline
Step-1: Applicant need to visit the official website and search the scheme name. 
Step-2: Applicant need to download the online fill out application form or download the blank form.
Step-3: Now on portal select the district Name and choose the option "Lok Seva Kendra"  and visit nearest location.
Step-4: Applicant need to submit the application form with required documents
           - Original copy of the prescribed application form filled by the student (including certificate by employer, declaration form by student, and authentication by college).
           - Photocopy of the self-attested mark sheet of the class passed by the applicant (previous year).
           - Photocopy of the first page of the applicant's bank passbook clearly showing their name, bank account number, and IFSC code.
           - Photocopy of the applicant's student/student's overall family card.
           - Photocopy of the applicant student/student's Aadhar card.
           - Photocopy of the applicant student/student's parents' Aadhar card.
Documents Required
Original copy of the prescribed application form filled by the student (including certificate by employer, declaration form by student, and authentication by college).
Photocopy of the self-attested mark sheet of the class passed by the applicant (previous year).
Photocopy of the first page of the applicant's bank passbook clearly showing their name, bank account number, and IFSC code.
Photocopy of the applicant's student/student's overall family card.
Photocopy of the applicant student/student's Aadhar card.
Photocopy of the applicant student/student's parents' Aadhar card.
