Diwali Gift Benefit Scheme (PBAOCWWB)
Puducherry
ConstructionDBTFinancial AssistanceWorker
Details
The "Diwali Gift Benefit" is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the Board sanction sum of ₹ 2,000/- to each beneficiary enrolled in the Board every year to celebrate the Diwali festival. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the registered construction worker. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
₹ 2,000/- credited as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The Construction Worker should have been registered for at least six months with the 'Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board'.
The beneficiary should be contributing to the Board's Fund.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Last Subscription Bill.
Board ID Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Bank Pass Book.
