"Subsidy for Quality Certification" under "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - Various incentives"
Puducherry
BusinessCertificationEntrepreneurIndustryMSMEQuality
Details
"Subsidy for Quality Certification" under "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - Various incentives" is a scheme by the Industries and Commerce Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The scheme came into force with effect from 1st April 2017, and is in operation in the whole of the UT of Puducherry. Through this scheme, assistance is granted for a maximum of 3 quality certifications @ 50% of the cost of quality certification with a ceiling of ₹2,00,000/- per unit.

Benefits
Assistance is granted for a maximum of 3 quality certifications @ 50% of the cost of quality certification with a ceiling of ₹2,00,000/- per unit.
Number of Installments
In single or multiple installments, depending on the availability of fund.
Mode of Disbursement
The subsidy amount shall be disbursed through the financial institutions/banks only, if the unit is financed by them, towards the adjustment against the loan availed by the entrepreneurs or for the creation of additional fixed assets or for the working capital purposes.
In case of self-financed units, the subsidy shall be disbursed directly to the entrepreneur/unit.
*The financial institution shall mean and include PIPDIC or any other Government Corporation, Scheduled Banks including Co-operative Banks.
Eligibility
All the Micro, Small, Medium and Large Industries are eligible.
The Unit should have made the investment on or after 1st April 2017.
The unit should provide at least 60% of employment to the people of the Union territory of Puducherry of the total employment strength of the industrial units. This 60% of the local employment will have to be maintained by the industrial unit during the period specified in the Affidavit.
The cost of the certificate will include fees charged by the certification agency, approved by the Quality Council of India (QCI) (excluding travel, hotel and surveillance charges).
The industrial unit shall not transfer or dispose of the fixed asset including plant and machinery in any manner till the completion of 5 years from the date of submitting the application/disbursement of the subsidy whichever is later.
The additional investments made by the new/existing industrial units after availing first claim is also eligible for subsidy up to the ceiling limit.
*The date of commencement as admitted by the entrepreneurs shall be reckoned after due verification by the officials of the Industries Department.

Special Cases
If, two or more industrial undertakings are set up by the same person as proprietor, common partners, common Board of Directors/shareholders, such units are eligible for subsidy as separate entity provided the location of the unit are different and licenses /clearances/ registrations are obtained separately for the enterprises.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The industrial unit should register the claim for the grant of incentive/subsidy in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
Post-Application Process
Step 1: The applications shall be scrutinized by the Directorate of the Industries on merit basis for the grant of incentives/subsidies/assistances to determine the quantum of amount admissible will be placed before the State Level Committee.
Step 2: The State Level Committee will go into the merits of each case to decide whether the unit qualifies for the grant of incentive/subsidy and will recommend the quantum of incentive/subsidy admissible to the unit.
Application Deadline
For New Units
Within one year from the date of commencement of obtaining the Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2/ Permanent Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
For Existing Units
Within one year of completion of Expansion/ Diversification/ Modernization.
Documents Required
Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2 (UAM/ PMT) Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
Caste certificate from the competent authority in the case of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) Entrepreneurs.
Loan Sanction Letter.
Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Payment Made to the Quality Certifying Agency / Patent Attorney / Technical Providing Institution & Agency.
Approval Copy Obtained from the Director of Industries after Signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Technology-Providing Institution/Agency.
Month-wise Interest Paid Statement from the Finance Institution/Bank Along with No-due Certificate.
List of Employees Covered Under the Provident Fund Scheme Along with Wage/Salary Payment Particulars.
Provident Fund Remittance for the Claiming Period.
Approval from the Quality Council of India for the Certifying Agency.
Quality Certificates.
Receipt for the Payment to the Quality Certifying Agency (if Applicable).
Patent (if Applicable).
Receipt for the Payment to the Patent Attorney (if Applicable).
Registration Certificate of Membership with Export Promotion Council / Federation of Indian Export Organization (FIEO).
Prior Approval of the Director of Industries and Commerce for Participation in the Exhibition/Trade Fair.
Receipt for the Payment to the Exhibition Organizer for Rent/Space.
Bill/Invoices for Printing Charges of Literature and Display Material.
Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Payment Made to the Exhibition Organizer, Literature, and Display Material.
Original Copy of the Catalogue/Printing Material Prepared for Exhibition/Trade Fair.
Brochure/Catalogue of Exhibition/Trade Fair.
Photographs of the Applicant's Stall in the Exhibition/Trade Fair.
Recognition/Accreditation for Energy/Water Auditing Institution/Consultant (if Applicable).
Energy/Water Audit Report.
Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Payment Made to the Energy/Water Audit Institution/Agency.
Receipt for the Payment to the Energy/Water Institution/Agency.
*The industrial unit shall have to furnish the details of production, employment and other information every year and from time to time as sought by the Industries and Commerce Department.
