Assistance For Purchase of Aids/Appliances
Chandigarh
Aids AppliancesDisabilityFinancial AssistanceHandicapped
Details
The "Assistance for Purchase of Aids/Appliances" scheme under the Social Welfare, Women & Child Development Chandigarh financial assistance is being provided to physically handicapped persons for the purchase of aids/appliances to increase their mobility in their day-to-day working. The applicant should be a resident of UT, Chandigarh to avail of benefits under the scheme. By providing support for their purchase, the scheme empowers individuals to perform tasks and activities independently, thereby enhancing their self-esteem and overall well-being.

Benefits
100% cost on purchase of artificial limbs/ aids/ appliances subject to a maximum of ₹40,000/- 
Eligibility
Annual income of the applicant from all sources should not exceed  ₹1,50,000/- per annum.
Applicant must be resident of UT, Chandigarh for more than 3 years.
Applicant's Disability should be to the extent of 40% and above.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the "ServicesPlus" website.
Step-2: Click on "Register" on the homepage.
Step-3: Fill out the registration form with your
            - Full Name 
            - Email id
            - Mobile number 
            - Password
            - Select State
            - Enter Captcha
Step-4:  Review the details to ensure accuracy, and then submit registration.
Step-5: After successful registration, you may receive a confirmation message on the website or via email, confirming that your registration was successful.

Apply
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the "ServicesPlus" website and login
Step-2: Apply for Services.
Step-3: Select the services/Scheme name.
Step-4: Provide the required details in the application form.
Step-5: Submit.
Documents Required
Required Documents:- (Self-Attested Photocopy)

Two passport-size photographs.
Residence Proof for the last three years duly attested (Voter Identity Card, Ration Card, Electricity Bill)
Copy of Disability Certificate/Identity Card with 40% Disability.
Affidavit regarding income as per specimen enclosed with the application form.
Recommendations of Medical Authorities (General Hospital, PGIMER, GMCH, or any Govt. Dispensary) regarding aid/ appliance required by the applicant. Driving license in case apply for a vehicle with gear.
