"Capital Investment Subsidy: Physically Handicapped Persons/ Ex-Servicemen" under "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries"
Puducherry
BusinessDisabilityEntrepreneurInvestmentMachinery
Details
The "Capital Investment Subsidy: Physically Handicapped Persons/ Ex-Servicemen" is a Component of the "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries" Scheme by the Department of Industrial Development (Industries and Commerce), Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the new industrial units which started production on or after 5th August 2009 by physically handicapped entrepreneurs and Ex-Servicemen for the investments made on land, building and plant and machinery are eligible for capital investment subsidy at the rate of 25% thereon subject to a maximum of ₹25,00,000/- for the micro and small manufacturing enterprises. 

Benefits
A capital investment subsidy at the rate of 25% thereon subject to a maximum of ₹25,00,000/- for the micro and small manufacturing enterprises for the investments made on land, building and plant and machinery.

Number of Installments
The subsidy shall be disbursed in a single instalment.
NOTE: Where due to paucity of funds in a particular financial year or for such other reasons as the case may be, single instalment disbursement is not possible, such disbursement will be made in instalments. 

Mode of Disbursement 
In the case of Units Financed by Financial Institutions/Banks, the subsidy amount shall be disbursed through the financial institutions/banks only, towards the adjustment against the loan availed by the entrepreneurs or for the creation of additional fixed assets or working capital purposes.
In the case of Self-financed Units, the subsidy shall be disbursed directly to the entrepreneurs.
Eligibility
The scheme is applicable to the new industrial units which started production on or after 5th August 2009 by physically handicapped entrepreneurs and Ex-Servicemen.
The subsidy for Physically Handicapped (PH) persons will be admissible only for those who suffer from not less than 40% incapacity under relevant category.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The industrial unit should register the claim for the grant of incentive/subsidy in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
*The State Level Committee will go into the merits of each case to decide whether the unit qualifies for the grant of incentive/subsidy.

Application Deadline
For New Units
Within one year from the date of commencement of obtaining the Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2/ Permanent Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
For Existing Units
Within one year of completion of Expansion/ Diversification/ Modernization.
Documents Required
General Documents
Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2 (UAM/ PMT) Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
Caste certificate from the competent authority in the case of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) Entrepreneurs.
Loan Sanction Letter.
Scheme-Specific Documents
Registered Land Document.
Plan Approval from the Pollution Control Board (PPA).
Engineer’s Certificate for Building Valuation Assessed by Public Works Department (PWD)/Pondicherry Industrial Promotion Development and Investment Corporation (PIPDIC).
Registered Lease Agreement for the Building Executed Between the Developer and the Unit.
Purchase Invoices for Plant & Machinery/ Pollution Equipment/ Generator.
Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Investment in Fixed Assets / Pollution Control Equipment / Generator.
Certificate for the Installation of Pollution Control Equipment Obtained from the Directorate of Sustainable Technologies and Environmental (DSTE).
Air/Water Consent Orders Obtained from DSTE.
Notary Affidavit.
Case-Specific Documents
In the case of Second Hand Machinery, an affidavit stating that the subsidy has not been availed of from the Central Government or any State or Union Territories.
