Pension Scheme for Grade II Deformed Leprosy Patients
Tripura
Financial AssistanceLeprosyPatientsPension
Details
Launched on 1st August 2015, the scheme "Pension Scheme for Grade II Deformed Leprosy Patients" is a Pension Scheme by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura. The scheme provides financial assistance of ₹2,000/- per month to Leprosy Patients who are residents of Tripura. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Pension of ₹2,000/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura. 
The applicant should be affected with Leprosy Grade II. 
Application Process
Offline
The applications would be invited from the eligible candidates by giving wide publicity through print media and electronic media.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office of the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO)/ Gram Panchayat (GP)/ Village Committee (VC)/ Nagar Panchayat (NP)/AMC of the concerned area 
and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Income Certificate, issued by the local DCM/SDM (not applicable for BPL Family).
Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Ration Card.
Address Proof.
Age Proof.
Voter ID.
Permanent Resident of Tripura Certificate (PRTC).
Medical Certificate
