Scheme of Scholarship for Sainik Schools
Meghalaya
EducationSainikScholarshipSchoolStudent
Details
"Scheme Of Scholarship For Sainik Schools" was launched by the Directorate Of Higher and Technical Education, Meghalaya, to prepare young boys for a career in the Cadre of the Armed Forces. The scholarships are awarded to students whose parents are permanent residents of Meghalaya and whose family income is less than ₹8,000/- per month.

Benefits
Scholarship of ₹20,000/-, awarded to the students whose family income is below ₹5,000/- per month.
Scholarship of ₹10,000/-, awarded to the students whose family income is between ₹5,000/- to ₹8,000/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a student of the Sainik School, Goalpara.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Tribe (ST)/ Scheduled Caste (SC), or the applicant should be a child of Service Personnel (including the ex-servicemen community).
The student should be studying in class 12th. 
The student should be fluent in the English language.
The parents of the student' should be permanent residents of Meghalaya.
The student's family income should be less than ₹8,000/- per month.
Application Process
Offline
Advertisements of scholarship schemes are given to the Press and Government Website [meghalaya.gov.in] after the publication of Boards and University results. 
Step 1: The applicant should visit the Office of the Principal, Sainik School Goalpara, and request a hard copy of the application form. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Principal, Sainik School, Goalpara, Assam.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Income Certificate of Parents.
Caste Certificate (if Applicable).
Copy of Student’s Previous Year’s Mark Sheet.
Copy of Admission Receipt of Sainik School.
Domicile Certificate.
Any other document, as required.
