Fellowship Scheme for M.Phil & Ph.D for Scheduled Caste Students (Maharaja Sayajirao Gayakvad Scholarship)
Gujarat
FellowshipMPhilPhDScheduled CasteScholarshipStudentThesis
Details
The “Fellowship Scheme for M.Phil & Ph.D for Scheduled Caste Students” scheme is administered by the Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare, Government of Gujarat. Under this scheme, Scheduled Caste students pursuing M.Phil and Ph.D. programs at any recognized universities will receive a monthly fellowship.

Benefits
Scholarship rate per student:
For M.Phil: ₹2,500/Per Month (For 10 Months)
For PhD:  ₹10,000/Per Month (For 10 Months)
Eligibility
The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste of Gujarat.
The student should be enrolled in either an M.Phil or Ph.D. program.
The annual family income of the student should be up to ₹6,00,000/-.
This assistance is paid on the condition that the student submits a thesis.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Digital Gujarat Portal: https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and the applicant will be redirected to the registration form page.
Step 03: Enter your Mobile Number, Email, Set Password and then click on ‘Save’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant can login through his/her User Name (Mobile No./Email ID) and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘My Profile’ to update your profile and fill in all the mandatory information.
Step 06: After filling in profile details, click on ‘Update Profile’. The profile will be updated after entering the verification Code (OTP).
Step 07: Now under services, select ‘Scholarship Services’ and then click on ‘SC Scheme’.
Step 08: Select the Financial Year for which you want to apply and then click on ‘Change Financial Year’.
Step 09: Select the scheme, read the interaction carefully, and then click on ‘Continue to Service’.
Step 10: Fill in the application form completely and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 11: Now, click on ‘Save as Draft’ and agree with the terms & conditions, and submit the application form by clicking on ‘Confirm & Final Submit’. 
Instructions: 
Note 01: Photo uploading for all applicants is mandatory.
Note 02: Application will be considered complete only when all sections are completed.
Note 03: Only one application per applicant will be acceptable for M.phil, PhD Thesis Assistance. If any student submits more than one application either from single institute or from multiple institutions his/her all applications will be rejected by the competent authority and no request from any side will be entertained.
Note 04: In case of any wrong/misleading information provided in the application shall lead to rejection of the application by Department Authorities.
Note 05: All required documents must be carefully scanned as per the instructions given.
Note 06: Student has to fill his/her application carefully as there is no provision for institution change once the application submits successfully.
Note 07: The unreadable uploaded documents will allow competent authority to reject student application.
Note 08: Direct Individual submission of this application form will not be accepted in case of students studying inside the state.
Documents Required
Passport size photo
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Income Certificate (Competent Authority) (Form No. 16 required for Govt. Employee)
Caste Certificate from the Competent Authorities
First Page Of Bank Passbook/Cancelled Cheque
10th Standard Marksheet
School Leaving Certificate (If Any)
Marriage Certificate (If Any)
Death Certificate of Father (If Father not Alive)
Break Affidavit(If Break Gap is more than One Year)
Thesis Typing/Printing Bill Receipt
12th Stanard Marksheet (If Any)
Graduate Marksheet (If Any)
Other Marksheets/Last Year Marksheet (If Any)
LWP Certificate (For Students Who take Leave Without Pay for Entire Duration of Course)
Identity Card (College/School)
Any other documents as required
Note: The Validity of the Income Certificate is 3 years. It is advised to check the Income Certificate issue date before uploading the document.
