One Time Cash Incentive towards acquiring BEd, BPEd, DTEd, PGDCA (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
CashEducationEx-ServicemanIncentiveStudent
Details
"One Time Cash Incentive towards acquiring BEd, BPEd, DTEd, PGDCA" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, up to ₹20,000/- is provided to the unemployed Ex-servicemen to pursue the mentioned programs/courses from Government-recognized Schools/Institutions, upon prior permission from the Department. The application should be submitted offline within three months from the date of successful completion of the course.

Benefits
The actual cost of the program/course or ₹20,000/- is provided to the ESM.
The amount, as decided by the Management Committee, is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-serviceman.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should be unemployed.
The applicant should have obtained prior permission from the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should apply within three years of discharge from service.
The course/program should be done from a Government-recognized School/Institution.
The course/program should be one of the following - 
Bachelor of Education (BEd)
Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd)
Diploma in Teacher Education (DTEd)
Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications (PGDCA)
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
*The application should be submitted within three months from the date of successful completion of the course.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM.
Discharge Certificate of the ESM.
Proof of Successful Completion of the Course (Marksheet, Degree, etc).
Fee Receipt.
Declaration by the ESM.
