Grant to Meritorious Wards of ESM in Sports: National / International Level (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
Ex-ServicemanGrantSportsStudentWidow
Details
"Grant to Meritorious Wards of ESM in Sports: National / International Level" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, the meritorious wards of the ESM are provided grants for their achievements in sports at national and international levels. The application should be submitted offline within three months from the date of the achievement.

Benefits
Grant of ₹50,000/- for achievements in sports at the international level.
Grant of ₹30,000/- for achievements in sports at the national level.
The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Ward of an ESM / Ward of the Widow of an Ex-Serviceman (ESM).
The ESM / Ward of the Widow of an ESM should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The event should be organised by a body approved/recognized by the Government.
The applicant should have achieved merit in a sport at the national/international level.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Relevant Certificates of Achievements in Sports at National/International Level.
Attested Copies for Participation and Sponsorship.
Identity Card of the ESM / Widow of the ESM.
Birth Certificate of the Ward (if not already registered with the DSW).
Study Certificate of the Ward (if not already registered with the DSW).
First Page of Bank Passbook.
