Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Vulnerable Women
Tripura
DivorcedFinancial AssistancePensionUnmarriedWomen
Details
The scheme “Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Vulnerable Women" was launched by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura. The scheme provides a monthly pension of ₹2,000/- to the vulnerable women, such as Widows, Deserted Women, Unmarried Women, and also to the women who are in need of special care, support or protection because of their age, disability or risk of abuse or neglect. 

Benefits
Pension Amount: ₹2000/- per month.
Mode of Disbursal: The sanctioned grant will be transferred directly to the individual bank account of the applicant.
The list of beneficiaries will be made available on the official website of the Social Welfare & Social Education Department, Govt. of Tripura.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 59 years.
In the case of unmarried women, the age should be 45 years or above.
If the family has children in the age group of 6 to 14 years, those children must be enrolled in a school recognized by the Government of Tripura.
NOTE: The assistance under this scheme will be stopped in the following cases:
1.   Death of Beneficiary.
2.   Fulfillment of any exclusion criteria during the lifetime of the beneficiary:
Remarriage of a widow.
A member of the family of the beneficiary getting a government Job.
The annual family income of the beneficiary exceeding ₹1,00,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should visit the Office of the Child Development Project Officer, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form free of cost. 
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the CDPO Office under which the project his/her residence is located. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Income Certificate from SDM (Sub Divisional Magistrate).
Age Proof Certificate (Birth Certificate/ School Certificate/ Madhyamik Admit).
Aadhaar Card.
Permanent Resident of Tripura Certificate (PRTC).
Ration Card (Issued by the Food & Civil Supplies Department).
Death Certificate of husband (In case of claiming pension under "Widow" sub-category)
Divorced Certificate issued by the Court (In case of Divorced Women Under "Deserted Women" for claiming pension)
Un-Married Women Certificate from Gram Panchayat (GP)/Nagar Panchayat (NP)/AMC/Village Committee (VC) Chairman in case of claiming pension under the "Unmarried Women" sub-category.
Non-Government Employee Certificate from Panchayat Secretary/Ward Secretary/Gazetted Officer.
After Selection:
Life Certificate & Income Certificate are to be submitted to the CDPO in November every year.
