Shednet House
Rajasthan
AgricultureFarmerFarmingShednet House
Details
The Shednet House scheme under the Agriculture Department Rajasthan Government provided subsidies to farmers so they could earn more income by cultivating horticultural crops like vegetables, flowers, fruits, etc. by controlling the agro-climatic factors, temperature, humidity, and sunlight. A shednet house or other woven material is a structure that has openings for the necessary sunlight, moisture, and air to enter from the open spaces. It creates a suitable microenvironment conducive to the growth of the plant. It is also called shednet house or net house.

Other important points
Construction of shednet house should be done only after administrative approval/work order has been issued by the Horticulture Department.
After construction, verification will be done by the committee formed.
Payment of grant amount directly into the bank account of the farmer or to the producer firm based on written consent of the farmer.

Benefits
For a maximum area of 4000 square meters
50 percent subsidy is given to general-category farmers.
70 percent subsidy is given to small, marginal, scheduled caste, and scheduled tribe farmers.

In compliance with the Chief Minister's budget announcement, 25 percent additional grant is being given to all the small and marginal category farmers of the state along with the farmers of the Scheduled Tribe areas.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant must have agricultural land ownership and irrigation sources.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step-3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.
  Citizen
Step-4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.
Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,
Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 
Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 
Enter the password.
A new link appear on screen, now click on the new SSO link.
SSO id will appear on the screen, now create the password.
Enter Mobile number, click on registration.
Step-5: Submit.

Apply
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step-3: Click on “ RAJ-KISAN ” option. 
Step-4: In "Farmer", click on "Application Entry Request".
Step-5: Enter the "Bhamashah ID" or "Janaadhaar ID" and search.  
Step-6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step-7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step-8: Provide the required details.
            - Pensioner Details.
            - Bank Details.
            - Disability Details.
            - Verification Details.
            - Upload Documents.
Step-9: Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card / Janadhar Card
Copy of Jamabandi (not more than six months old)
Soil and water test report
Quotation from approved firm and proof of irrigation source.
Certificate related to grant to small, marginal, scheduled caste, and scheduled tribe farmers
