Vermicompost Ikai
Rajasthan
AgricultureFarmerFertilizer
Details
The Vermicompost Ikai under the Agriculture Department Rajasthan government provides subsidies to farmers. Through the organic manure method, good quality manure can be prepared in a very short time under normal temperatures in which entire species of earthworms are used. In this, the cellulose and microorganisms present in the intestines of earthworms together decompose the ingested organic matter very rapidly. Due to the effect of their digestive process and the combined mixture of organic matter, these earthworms leave out a waste material which is called vermicomposting and these Manure pits are not found without earthworms.

Important points
Verification can be done by the committee formed after construction.
After physical verification, the grant amount will be paid directly into the farmer's bank account.

Benefits
Vermicomposting Unit with RCC Construction
Size: 30 feet X 8 feet X 2.5 feet
Cost: 50% of the installation cost, up to a maximum of ₹50,000/- per unit
Subsidy is proportional to the size of the unit
HDPE Vermibed Unit
Size: 12 feet X 4 feet X 2 feet
Cost: 50% of the installation cost, up to a maximum of ₹8,000/- per unit
Subsidy is proportional to the size of the unit
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The Applicants must Cultivate horticultural crops on a minimum of 0.4 hectares of own land.
The farmer must have livestock, water, and fossils available.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step-3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.
  Citizen
Step-4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.
Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,
Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 
Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 
Enter the password.
A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
Enter Mobile number, click on registration.
Step-5: Complete the registration process.

Apply
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step-3: Click on “ RAJ-KISAN ” option. 
Step-4: In "Farmer", click on "Application Entry Request".
Step-5: Enter the "Bhamashah ID" or "Janaadhaar ID" and search.  
Step-6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step-7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step-8: Provide the required details.
            - Pensioner Details.
            - Bank Details.
            - Disability Details.
            - Verification Details.
            - Upload Documents.
Step-9: Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card / Janadhar Card
Copy of Jamabandi (not more than six months old)
Copy of Bank Passbook.
