Maternity Benefit (GBOCWWB)
Goa
Financial AssistanceLabourMaternityMedicalPregnantWorker
Details
"Maternity Benefit (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of the Department of Labour and Employment, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, the worker registered with the Board is provided with financial assistance of ₹2,000/- as maternity benefit for upto two pregnancies. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹2,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Worker.
The applicant should be registered with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The worker should be between 18 to 60 years of age.
The worker should have completed ninety days of service as a registered worker in the year.
The benefits can be availed for upto two pregnancies.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Challans or Copy of Pass Book. 
Medical Certificate in Original.
