Medical Assistance (GBOCWWB)
Goa
AccidentDiseaseLabourMedicalPatientSurgery
Details
"Medical Assistance (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of the Department of Labour and Employment, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, the worker who is hospitalized for 5 or more days due to an accident or any disease is provided with ₹400/- for the first 5 days and ₹40/- for the remaining days, subject to a maximum ₹2,000/-.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹400/- for the first 5 days.
Financial Assistance of ₹40/- for remaining days, subject to a maximum of ₹2,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Worker.
The worker should be between 18 to 60 years of age.
The worker should have completed ninety days of service as a registered worker in the year.
The applicant should be registered with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have been hospitalized for five or more days.
The cause of the hospitalization should be an accident or disease.
The unregistered workers/ their dependents shall be eligible upon the production of a certificate from the builder or Inspector of the area stating that he/she is a building worker.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Proof of Hospitalization (Medical Certificate/ Hospital Bills).
Disability Certificate, in the case of disability caused by the Accident/Disease/Surgery.
Certificate from the Builder or Inspector of the Area, in the case of unregistered workers/ their dependents.
