Scheme for Supply of TV Sets to Industrial Establishments/Labour Welfare Centres/Clubs/Recreation Rooms
Goa
ClubEmployeeIndustryRecreationTelevisionTVWorker
Details
"Scheme for Supply of TV Sets to Industrial Establishments/Labour Welfare Centres/Clubs/Recreation Rooms" was launched by the Goa Labour Welfare Board, Department of Labour and Employment, Goa. The scheme aims to provide television sets to enable the workers/employees to witness programmes of national importance and to inculcate in themselves ideas of national integration besides broadening their outlook.

Benefits
One TV Set (coloured) of up to ₹25,000, including all accessories.
NOTE 1: The incidental expenses incurred in connection/ with the operation of TV Sets etc. will have to be borne by the concerned establishment.
NOTE 2: If the Management/Union/Government fails to comply with the provisions of the schemes/agreement, the Goa Labour Welfare Board shall have the right to withdraw TV Set if it is supplied departmentally or recover the grant-in-aid amount with interest thereon at the prescribed rate if the TV is provided on grant-in-aid basis.
Eligibility
The applicant should be one of the following - 
Industrial Establishment/Labour Welfare Centre run by the Government of Goa.
Club/Recreation Room run by the Registered Trade Unions having 300 or more Members.
Preference
Applicants situated in labor-concentrated areas.
NOTE: The beneficiary establishment should enter into an agreement with the Welfare Board to maintain the TV Set in good working condition at all times and exhibit programmes for the benefit of their workers on day-to-day basis.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents, through their industrial establishment, to the Secretary, Goa Labour Welfare Board, 4th floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto Centre, Panaji, Goa - 403 001.
Documents Required
Proof of Ownership or Authorization (Letter of Authorization/ Registration Certificate), if the Applicant Represents an Organization.
Documentation of the TV Set Already Been Provided to the Establishment, if Any.
Documentation (Brochure, etc.) of the TV Set Specifications, Mentioning the Size, Make, and Price (Including Taxes), if Any.
Confirmation of Willingness to Provide Suitable Accommodation for Installing the TV Set(s) and to Incur Incidental Expenses Associated with Operating the TV Set(s), if Provided.
