Financial Assistance for Education (GBOCWWB)
Goa
EducationFinancial AssistanceLabourStudentWorker
Details
"Financial Assistance for Education (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of the Department of Labour and Employment, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, the worker registered with the Board is provided with financial assistance, as determined by the Board, for the education of their children. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Financial Assistance, as determined by the Board, for the education of the children of the Worker.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Worker registered with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The worker should be between 18 to 60 years of age.
The worker should have completed ninety days of service as a registered worker in the year.
The ward of the worker should be pursuing education.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Caste Certificate, if applicable.
Educational Certificates/Marksheets of the Latest Qualifying Examination.
Proof of Admission/Enrolment into the Institute.
Fee Receipt.
Proof of Identity of the Student.
Affidavit of the Parent of the Student, signed before MLA/MP/Panchayat President/Gazetted Officer of the State or Central.
