Satyvadi Raja Harishchandra Marnotar Sahay Yojana
Gujarat
DeathFamilyFinancial AssistanceFuneralScheduled Caste
Details
The "Satyvadi Raja Harishchandra Marnotar Sahay Yojana" scheme was launched by the Director of Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat, in the year 2000. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to scheduled caste families at the time of the death of a family member to cover funeral expenses, due to their poor economic conditions.

Benefits
Under the scheme, scheduled caste families receive financial assistance of ₹5,000/- at the time of a family member's death to cover funeral expenses.
Eligibility
The deceased person as well as the applicant should be a native of Gujarat.
The deceased person as well as the applicant applying should belong to Scheduled Castes only.
The annual income limit of the applicant should be more than ₹6,00,000/- for rural areas and ₹6,00,000/- for urban areas.
The application must be made within a time limit of six months of the death. 
The death registration certificate of the deceased person must be produced. 
Only one person in the family of the deceased can take the benefit at that time.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Caste Certificate issued by competent authority
Proof of residence (Any one of Electricity Bill/Licence/Lease Agreement/Electoral Card/Ration Card)
Death Certificate
Copy of first page of bank passbook/cancelled cheque (in the name of the applicant)
Aadhaar card
Proof of annual income
Any other documents as required
