Manav Garima Yojana
Gujarat
SCSelf-employmentTool KitsTrade
Details
The scheme “Manav Garima Yojana” was launched by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme was launched in the year 1995. The scheme offers financial assistance to Scheduled Caste individuals who wish to establish cottage industries for self-employment without requiring bank loans. Additionally, employment/tool kits are provided to those who seek self-employment opportunities.
        In the limit of the list according to 28 trades, the necessary toolkits purchased and distributed by GRIMCO in the form of necessary resources/tools for business, this scheme is for the improvement of the economic condition of individual artisans, who are living below the poverty line and to increase the income of weaker section of society, small scale trade/business like vendors, vegetable seller,s and carpentry.

Benefits
Under the scheme, tool kits are provided for a total of 28 types of trades/businesses to individuals seeking self-employment opportunities. The list is as follows:
Sl. No. Trade Name Sl. No. Trade Name Sl. No.  Trade Name
1 Handicraft work 10 Electrical Appliances Repairing 19 Pickle Maker
2 Stitching work 11 Agricultural Blacksmith 20 Hot, Cold Drinks, Snack Seller
3 Vehicle Servicing And Repairing 12 Welding Work 21 Puncture Kit
4 Tailoring 13 Carpentry 22 Flour Meal
5 Embroidery 14 Laundry 23 Masala Meal
6 Pottery 15 Broom Making  24 Mobile Repairing
7 Different Types of Ferries 16 Milk- Curd Seller 25 Hair Cutting (Barber Work)
8 Plumber 17 Fish Seller 26
9 Beauty Parlor 18 Papad Maker 27
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
The applicant should be a native of Gujarat state.
The age limit of the applicant should be 18 to 60 years.
The applicant from the Scheduled Caste Category should have an annual family income of up to ₹6,00,000/-.
There is no income limit for applicants belonging to the Most Backward Caste among the Scheduled Castes category.
If the beneficiary or any family members of the beneficiary have already benefited from this scheme, they are not eligible to avail of its benefits again.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual  
Documents Required
Passport Size Photograph
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Caste certificate
Ration card
Proof of residence (any one of electricity bill/license/Rent agreement/election card/property card, land document)
Proof of annual income
Proof of vocational training, if any
Self-declaration
Agreement
Any other documents as required
Application Attachments
