Grant of Financial Assistance to the Press Reporters of Puducherry
Puducherry
Financial AssistanceMagazineNewspaperReporter
Details
The scheme "Grant of Financial Assistance to the Press Reporters of Puducherry" by the Department of Information & Publicity, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to provide financial support amounting to ₹25,000/- to eligible press reporters who have served in Newspaper / Magazine duly registered with the "Registrar of Newspapers, Government of India, New Delhi" continuously for atleast 10 years.

Benefits
Financial Assistance: ₹25,000/-.
Mode of Disbursal: The Director, Department of Information & Publicity, Puducherry will transmit the cheque to the applicant after obtaining the necessary receipt thereof from the applicant in the prescribed format.
Time Limit: Three weeks from the date of application.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than five years.
The applicant should be a Press Reporter.
The applicant should have served in a Newspaper/Magazine.
The Newspaper/Magazine should be duly registered with the "Registrar of Newspapers, Government of India, New Delhi".
The Newspaper/Magazine should be registered continuously for not less than 10 years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The applicant should visit the Office of the Department of Information & Publicity or one of its Branch Offices. The Office Timings are Monday to Friday, 08:45 am to 01:00 pm & 02:00 pm to 05:45 pm. Submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Member Secretary-cum-Treasurer.
Step 4: Upon successful receipt of the application, a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Nativity and Nationality Certificate (Form-II), from an officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar. 
Service Certificate (Form-III) from the competent authority of the Newspaper/Magazine concerned. 
Verification Certificate (Form-IV) from the Director of Information and Publicity, Puducherry. 
