Free Bus Pass for Media Persons
Puducherry
BusMediaRoadTransportTravel
Details
The "Free Bus Pass for Media Persons" scheme, introduced by the Department of Information & Publicity, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to provide a free bus pass facility to media persons working in Puducherry in Puducherry Road Transport Corporation buses (except town buses) to undertake journeys for their professional requirements.

Benefits
Free bus pass (valid for one year) for professional travel needs.
Time Limit for Issue of a Fresh Bus Pass: Two weeks from the date of application.
Time Limit for Renewal of the Expired Bus Pass: Two days form the date of application.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than five years.
The applicant should have served for a minimum of three years as a media person in the Print/Electronic Media/News Agency in the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should be employed as a media person in any Print/Electronic Media/News Agency during the application.
The term "Media person" includes individuals serving as a full-time Editor / News Editor / Sub Editor / Reporter / Press Photographer / Videographer / Correspondent of Print / Electronic Media / News Agency within the Union Territory of Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
For both Fresh Applications and Renewal Applications, the applicant should write a formal letter, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required), and submit the same to - 
The Director
Department of Information & Publicity
18, Belcombe Street, Puducherry - 605 001
+91-413-2334398, 2336415, 2337078
info.pon@nic.in
*The Office Timings are Monday to Friday, 08:45 am to 01:00 pm & 02:00 pm to 05:45 pm.
Documents Required
For Fresh Application
Nativity/Residence Certificate (Form-II), issued by the Officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar;
Three stamp-sized photographs.
Service Certificate (Form-II) showing the designation, the nature of the post (full-time or part-time), period of service, and the place of work from the former employer.
For Renewal Application
An attested copy of the expired Bus Pass.
One stamp-sized photograph.
