Disable Marriage Scheme (Divyang Lagna Sahay)
Gujarat
DivyangFinancial AssistanceMarriagePwD
Details
The scheme "Disable Marriage Scheme" was launched by the Director Social Defence, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to persons with disabilities when a person with a disability marries another person with a disability, as well as when a non-disabled person marries someone with a disability.

Benefits
Under this scheme, when two individuals with disabilities marry each other, the couple is entitled to a total assistance of ₹1,00,000/-, equating to ₹50,000/- per person.
If a person without disabilities marries someone with a disability, the individual with a disability is eligible to receive assistance of ₹50,000/-.
Eligibility
The age of the girl should be above 18 years and the age of the boy should be above 21 years.
The benefit of this scheme will be available only once (one time per couple).
Under this scheme, the application has to be made within two years of marriage.
Under this scheme, benefits are given as per the percentage of disability mentioned in the table below:
Sl. No. Type of Disability Percentage of Disability
1 Blindness, low vision, hereditary muscular dystrophy, leprosy-cured, acid attack victims, amblyopia, cerebral palsy, dwarfism, multiple sclerosis-hardening disorder
   40% or more
2 Hearing impairment  71% to 100%
3 Chronic neurological conditions, generalized trauma, malignant haemorrhage, tremor, muscular rigidity, intellectual disability, reduced hemoglobin content, chronic anemia, mental illness, special learning disabilities, speech and language impairment, neuro-developmental impairment, multiple disabilities
    50% or more
Note: In the case of a differently-abled applicant marrying a differently-abled woman from another state, both the differently-abled spouses will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme on the production of the prescribed proof. Further, the District Social Defence Officer will have to obtain an undertaking from the applicant that the female beneficiary has not received disability marriage assistance from her state.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
Note 01: In the case of marriage of a person with a disability residing in two different districts, the application for availing the benefit under the scheme has to be made by the couple in the district of permanent residence of the Divyang couple after marriage.
Note 02: The District Social Defence Officer of the district which approved the application has to inform the District Social Defence Officer of the other district about the approval of the application.
User Manual
Documents Required
1. Passport-size Photograph
2. Copy of Aadhaar card
3. Attested copy of Disability Certificate from Civil Surgeon of girl/boy
4. Proof of Residence (any one of Ration Card/Electricity Bill/Driving License/Aadhaar Card/Election Card)
5. Proof of age of girl/boy
6. Wedding photographs of both together
7. Marriage Registration certificate
8. Copy of first page of bank passbook/cancelled cheque
9. Any other documents as required
