Child Benefit Scheme (UKBOCWWB)
Uttarakhand
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerEducation AssistanceLabourScholarshipStudent
Details
The “Child Benefit Scheme” is a social security scheme implemented by the Uttarakhand Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board (UKBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Uttarakhand. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to the children of registered building & construction workers who are enrolled in classes ranging from Class I to higher education levels or professional courses.

Benefits
Financial assistance for education will be provided to the children of construction workers at the following rates:
Sl. No. Class/Course Financial Assistance (Yearly)
1 Class I to V  ₹1,800/-
2 Class VI to X  ₹2,400/-
3 Class XI to XII ₹3,000/-
4 Graduation/Post Graduation or its equivalent ₹10,000/-
5 ITI, Polytechnic and courses for higher education The course fee for the same will be payable to the Government Institutions / College.
Note: The amount of financial assistance payable will be made available in one go as per the eligibility of the registered construction worker for the entire academic session.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant should be engaged in any building or construction work.
The applicant should be registered under the Uttarakhand Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board.
The workers will become eligible for assistance only after three months from their registration under the Board.
The applicant should have an active membership of the Board.
The son or daughter of the applicant/registered worker should be enrolled in any grade from Class I up to higher education or professional course.
The benefits should be provided to the first two children of registered workers.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
For New Registration under the UKBOCWWB:
Step 01: To become a beneficiary, a construction worker who has completed 18 years of age and has not completed 60 years, has worked as a construction worker for at least 90 days during the preceding 01 year, can register himself/herself.
Step 02: The eligible worker may visit the nearest Jan Seva Kendra or Shramik Suvidha Kendra along with all the relevant documents for online registration.
Step 03: Upon successful registration, the applicant will receive a Registration Number for future reference.
Step 04: The applicant can also track the status of their application online by visiting the official website: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/DynamicPages/LabourSearch-hi.aspx
Note 01: After verification of the application, the photo identity card will also be issued by the registration officer.
Note 02: Registration will be done free of cost, which will be valid for three years and after the completion of three years, only ₹100/- contribution will be required to be deposited by the construction worker for every next three years.
Application Process for Welfare Scheme Benefits:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, the eligible applicant may visit the nearest Shram Suvidha Kendra along with all the relevant documents.
Step 02: Upon successful submission of the application form, the applicant will receive an Application Number for future reference.
Step 03: The applicant can also track the status of their application online by visiting the official website: https://ukbocw.uk.gov.in/DynamicPages/LabourSchemeSearch.aspx
Note: Application form by registered eligible construction workers for financial assistance for the education of their children, which is related to the current academic session and is verified by the Principal/Head of the Department of the concerned educational institution, from the month of November in that financial year to the next academic session (next financial year) ) should be made available in the office of the Secretary, Welfare Board along with the recommendation of the Registration Officer of the concerned area by the month of June, the applications received after that will not be considered by the Board.
Documents Required
Documents required for New Registration:
Two Passport size photographs
Proof of age
Certificate of working as a construction worker for at least 90 days in the previous year
Affidavit of construction worker attested by notary
Voter ID card
Ration card
Certificate issued by Gram Panchayat officer, village head, or councilor.
Self-declaration Certificate
Nominee’s Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Bank account details
Any other document as required
Documents required for Welfare Scheme:
Registration ID Card of Worker/Labour card
Identity proof of worker i.e. Aadhaar Card
Mobile Number
Aadhaar Card of the child
Attested copy of Marksheet of the last year of the child (Not required for Class I )
Certificate from the school/institution
Self-declaration Certificate
Certificate confirming that no other assistance from any department or government has been availed earlier
Bank account details/Copy of passbook
Any other document as required
