Asangathit Karmakar Gambhir Bimari Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceMedical TreatmentSerious Illness
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Asangathit Karmakar Gambhir Bimari Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 28 April 2012. Under this scheme, financial assistance will be provided for the medical treatment of serious illness like treatment of kidney, cancer, sickle cell anemia, heart disease, AIDS and paralysis. 

Benefits
Unorganized workers can receive up to ₹ 50,000 in medical assistance to help cover the cost of treating kidney, cancer, sickle cell anemia, heart disease, AIDS, and paralysis. 
If the actual cost of treatment is less than ₹ 50,000, they will only receive the actual cost of treatment.
Eligibility
The applicant must be registered with the State Board for at least 90 days.
The applicant must be between the ages of 18 and 60.
The applicant must be registered as a beneficiary of unorganized workers under Section 10 of the Act.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Registration Card.
Disease details by Vikas khand Adhikari / Surgeon / Chief medical officer/ Heath Officer.
A approximate expenses details by related Medical officer.
