Nirman Shramik Siksha Kaushal Vikas Yojana
Rajasthan
EducationFinancialScholarshipsStudent
Details
The NIRMAN SHRAMIK SIKSHA KAUSHAL VIKAS YOJANA (NSKKVY) is a scheme launched by the Government of Rajasthan to provide financial assistance for education and skill development to the children of registered construction workers in the state. Under the scheme, scholarships for education will be provided to the workers' children. According to the scheme format, children studying from the 6th class to higher class (ITI, Diploma, Graduation, Post Graduation) can avail of the scheme's benefits by applying for the scholarship.

Benefits
The following scholarships will be provided to the male and female students after taking admission in the upcoming class: -

Class Student Student / Specially abled
From class 6th to 8th ₹ 8,000/- per year ₹ 9,000/- per year
From class 9th to 12th ₹ 9,000/- per year ₹ 10,000/- per year
ITI ₹ 9,000/- per year ₹ 10,000/- per year
Diploma ₹ 10,000/- per year ₹ 11,000/- per year
Graduation (General) ₹ 13,000/- per year ₹ 15,000/- per year
Graduate (Professional) ₹ 18,000/- per year ₹ 20,000/- per year
Post Graduate (General) ₹15,000/- per year ₹ 17,000/- per year
Post Graduate (Professional) ₹ 23,000/- per year ₹ 25,000/- per year

Beneficiary meritorious students will be given the following cash awards under the scheme:-

Class Prize money
Class 8th to 9th ₹ 4,000/-
class 11th ₹ 6,000/-
Diploma ₹ 10,000/-
Graduate ₹ 8,000/-
Postgraduate ₹ 12,000/-
Graduate (Professional) ₹ 25,000/-
Post Graduate (Professional) ₹ 35,000/-
Eligibility
The beneficiary must be a registered construction worker in the board.
Only the son/daughter/wife of the beneficiary will be eligible for the education assistance (scholarship) scheme.
A maximum of two children of the beneficiary or one child and wife will be eligible to receive the scholarship. However, if both husband and wife are registered beneficiaries, then a maximum of two children of the husband and wife will be eligible for the scholarship. However, there will be no limit for meritorious students to receive cash awards.
The student must be studying regularly in a government or private school or college recognized by the Central/State Government from class 6 to postgraduate level.
The student must be studying regularly in a government or recognized private ITI and polytechnic course run in the state.
To receive the cash award, meritorious students must have passed the class 8 to 12th examination with 75% marks or equivalent grade. Must have obtained/passed 60% or more marks or equivalent grade in diploma, graduation and postgraduate level examination (including medical, engineering or other professional examination).
The age of the beneficiary's wife should not be more than 35 years for the eligibility of scholarship and she should be studying regularly in an educational institution.
Scholarship will be payable only after passing the relevant examination for a year.
The student will be eligible for the scholarship only after getting admission in the next class after the opening of the educational/training institution after the summer vacation. However, in case of passing the final examination of 12th class, diploma, graduation or postgraduate course, it will not be necessary to take admission in the next class.
A beneficiary who does not deposit the contribution for a continuous period of one year will cease to be a beneficiary. Therefore, the son/daughter/wife of such a construction worker who fails to deposit the contribution will not be eligible for the scholarship under the scheme. However, the scholarship will be paid on restoration of the beneficiary under the proviso of the above section and rule.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step-3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.
  Citizen
Step-4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.
Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,
Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 
Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 
Enter the password.
A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
Enter Mobile number, click on registration.
 Apply 
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step-3: Click on “LDMS” option.
Step-4: In LDMS, select "Welfare Schemes" from the side menu and select BOCW Welfare Board. 
Step-5: Now click on "Apply for Scheme" on screen. 
Step-6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes of Rajasthan Shramik Card, out of which click on the name of "Yojana"
Step-7: Fill out the all relevant detail. 
Step-8: Submit.
Documents Required
1. Copy of the registration identity card of the beneficiary.
2. Copy of the first page of the beneficiary's bank account passbook (in which the name of the beneficiary, bank account number, and IFSC code is mentioned).
3. Copies of the beneficiary's Aadhar card and Bhamashah card. (optional)
4. Self-attested copy of the mark sheet of the class or course for which the scholarship is sought.
5. It is necessary to put the signature and seal in the prescribed column of the form by the head of the educational/training institution.
Special:- Incomplete application forms will not be accepted by the competent authority/office and will be returned
to the applicant at the same time for desired fulfillment.
