Matrimonial Incentives
Maharashtra
Financial AssistanceIncentiveMarriagePerson With DisabilitySocial Welfare
Details
The "Matrimonial Incentives" is a scheme by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. In this scheme, if a Person with Disability (PwD) gets married to a non-disabled person, then the couple is provided a marriage incentive of up to ₹ 50,000. Only citizens who are permanent residents of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply for this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra.

Benefits
The eligible couple will get up to ₹ 50,000/- as financial assistance. The nature of financial assistance is as below –
Saving Certificate of ₹ 25,000/-.
₹ 20,000/- in cash.
₹ 4,500/- in the form of household utility.
₹ 500/- to attend the marriage incentive program.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (Visually Handicapped, Low Vision, Hearing Impaired, Orthopedically Handicapped, etc).
The percentage of the disability should be 40% or above.
The applicant should have been married to a non-disabled person.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
2-Passport Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State of Maharashtra.
Disability Certificate.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate, Marksheet of Class 10th/12th, etc).
Proof of Marriage.
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
