Financial Assistance For The Marriage Of Daughters Of Poor Widows And Orphan Girls
Delhi
Financial AsisstanceGirl ChildMarriageOrphanWidow
Details
The scheme of "Financial Assistance for the Marriage of Daughters of Poor Widows and Orphan Girls" is the welfare scheme by the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi to provide financial assistance to poor widows for performing the marriage of their daughters (up to two daughters) and to provide financial assistance to the guardians including Homes/Institutions or foster parents of an orphan girl or an orphan girl for her marriage. 

Note: This scheme was been transferred from the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST/OBC/Min. to Social Welfare Department from the financial year 2006-07. 

Benefits
The quantum of Assistance is one-time ₹ 30,000/- up to two daughters only.
Eligibility
Financial assistance can be granted for performing marriage up to two daughters only. 
Residence of a minimum of 5 years in Delhi before the date of application. 
The income of the applicant should be less than ₹ 1,00,000/-per year from all sources (including rent, interest/dividends on savings & investments, earnings from the farm, property sale proceeds, etc.) of the applicant. 
Applicant should have an Aadhar number 
The Applicant should have a single-operated Aadhaar-linked account with any bank in the NCT of Delhi only. 
The applicant should not be in receipt of any assistance from the discretionary fund of the Lt. Governor or the Chief Minister of Delhi for the same purpose. 
The girl whose marriage is to be solemnized should be major on the date of marriage i.e. above 18 years of age. 
The application must be submitted within a period of sixty days, before or after the date of the marriage being solemnized.
Application Process
Online
Offline
The application is to be made online on the e-District portal (Delhi) Link: https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/

Steps to register on the e-district portal of GNCTD - 
Step 1: Log on to https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/ 
Step 2: Under Citizen Corner click on "New User"
Step 3: Click on select the document – Aadhar or Voter ID 
Step 4: Enter your Aadhar Card Number/Voter ID Card Number 
Step 5: Type the Captcha in the box shown. The "Citizen Registration Form" will Open.
Step 6: Fill up all fields including details of the Present Residential Address 
Step 7: Enter Captcha, and Click on Continue. 
Step 8: Login ID and Password will be received on the given mobile number/e-mail address. 
Step 9: Now Registration on the e-district portal is complete 

 Steps to register for the scheme -  
Step 1: Click on Registered User Login. Enter the given login ID and Password. Enter Captcha and Click on Login.
Step 2: Go to Main Page (Main Page) will open click on apply online. Drop Box applies for services will open – click on the link.
Step 3: A list of Departments providing online services shall open – Select the Department of Women & Child Development. 
Step 4: Three Financial Assistance Schemes will be shown. Choose the relevant scheme and Click on Apply. 
Step 5: Check the BASIC/PERSONAL DETAILS FORM and click on Continue. The form will open fill up all required fields & upload all required documents as per the requirement of the scheme selected. 
Step 6: Then click next and upload the photograph. Then click on finish. One OTP will be received on the registered mobile number. Enter OTP and Submit. 
Step 7: Acknowledgment of successful submission shall be generated. 
Documents Required
The application shall contain the recommendation from the Member of the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi or the Member of Parliament of the area concerned. 
The following self-attested documents shall be scanned and uploaded/attached with the application:- 
In the case of the Widow applicant a copy of the death certificate of her husband issued by the Registrar- Births & Deaths; 
A copy of the Ration card or voter identity card or any proof of residence; 
A self-declaration with regard to the income of the applicant 
Age proof of the girl in the form of a school leaving certificate or date of birth certificate issued by the Registrar of Births & Deaths 
In the case of an orphan girl growing up on her own, an affidavit on stamp paper duly attested by a Metropolitan or Executive Magistrate or a Notary or a certificate from a Gazetted Officer to the effect that she is an orphan. 
In the case of a girl brought up by a guardian or foster parent or relative, such persons or guardians should submit the affidavits to the effect that the girl is an orphan and he/they have brought her up. 
A marriage invitation card for the marriage for which financial assistance is sought. 
Self-declaration to the effect that no financial assistance has been received by the applicant from any other Govt. organization, Non-Govt. organization, Municipal Corporation of Delhi or New Delhi Municipal Corporation, or any other statutory or non-statutory agency for this purpose. 
Aadhar Card 
Residence proof of last 5-year residence in Delhi. 
Bank account details (Single –operated Aadhar linked) in Delhi only. 
Bank passbook/statement for the last year. 
In the case of SC/ST applicants, a caste certificate in the name of the applicant issued by a competent authority, and in the case of minority applicants self-declaration of the religion of the applicant duly verified by the religious institution has to be submitted. 
One passport-size photo of the applicant. 
One photograph of the Marriage Ceremony.
