Yatra Pass in DTC non AC Buses for the Construction Workers
Delhi
Construction WorkerLabourTransportTravelYatra Pass
Details
The "Yatra Pass in DTC non AC Buses for the Construction Workers" by the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Delhi, is a welfare scheme that provides a pass of ₹ 2400/- per three months for non AC DTC bus to the registered workers for purchasing. All types of bus passes i.e. Conventional Bus Pass as well as e-Bus Pass can be made online.

Benefits
A pass of 2400/- per three months for non AC DTC bus is provided.
Eligibility
For Registration
The applicant should be a resident of Delhi.
The applicant should be a Building/Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For Application
The applicant should be above 5 years of age.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Register Now”.
Step 2: Enter the following mandatory details: Aadhaar Card Number, Name as on Aadhar Card, Mobile Number, Date of Birth (as on Aadhar Card), Gender, etc. Create a password and confirm it. Click “Register”. You will be redirected to the registration page.
Step 3: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Father Name, Mother Name, Photograph, Applicant’s Video, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 4: On the next page, enter the mandatory details regarding your work/workplace (Previous/Current Employer Details, Proof of 90 Days Employment, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 5: Click on “Add Family Members” to avail the benefits of various schemes.
Step 6: In the next window, add your Bank Account details.
Step 7: In the next window, upload your Aadhaar Card, Address Proof, Birth Proof, Employment Proof, Bank Account details etc.
Step 8: In the next window, the "Affidavit of the Applicant" will be displayed. Verify all the details, and click on the checkbox.
Step 9: Proceed for the online registration fee of ₹25/- through a Debit Card/ Internet Banking/ UPI.
Step 10: Enter the OTP received on your registered mobile number to apply. Note down the Application Number for future reference. Download the acknowledgement receipt.
Track Your Application
Visit the homepage of the website regularly and click on "Track Your Application" to check the status of your application.
Application for Yatra Pass in DTC:
Step 01: Go to the DTC Website  and fill up the application form selecting the appropriate type and duration of bus pass, and upload soft copy of the required document in case of Concessional Bus Pass.
Step 02: Make the payment online.
Step 03: Conventional Bus pass shall be delivered at Applicant residential address within 5 working days and e-Bus Pass shall be sent through SMS via a link on Applicant Mobile Number within one working day.

Helpline: DBOCWWB Department, Delhi
Helpline Number (24x1) : 011-41236600
Number (office hours: 9:30AM - 6:00PM) : 011-23813846

Address & Helpline: Delhi Transport Corporation
Pass Section,
Delhi Transport Corporation,
Scindia House, KG Marg
Connaught Place, New Delhi 110 001.
Phones: 011-23752769 - 75,Ext.226.
Mobile: 08744073213
Documents Required
Labour card.
Any other documents as directed by the department.
