Disability Pension For Registered Worker (HBOCWWB)
Haryana
Construction WorkerDisabilityLabourPensionSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Disability Pension for Registered Worker (HBOCWWB)” was launched by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department Haryana. Under the scheme, a monthly pension of ₹3000/- is given to the registered worker in case of disability due to any infectious disease or accident at the workplace. Further, it is necessary for the registered worker to have minimum three-year regular membership and is not taking a disability pension from any other Haryana Government Department/ Board/ Corporation. 

Benefits
A pension of ₹3000/- per month is given to the worker in case of disability due to any infectious disease or accident at the workplace.
Eligibility
The worker should be registered under Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB).
The registered worker must have minimum three-year regular memberships.
The registered worker who has become disabled due to any infectious disease or accident at the workplace during the course of employment is eligible to apply under the scheme.
The percentage of permanent disability should be between 70% to 100%.
The worker must not be taking a disability pension from any other Haryana Government Department/ Board/ Corporation.
Note 01: It is necessary to upload the No Objection Certificate issued by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment.
Note 02: It is necessary to upload the declaration that the applicant is not receiving a pension from any other Government Department/Board/Corporation/institution while filling out the application form.
Step 03: It is mandatory for the beneficiary to upload the life certificate and deposit the prescribed contribution every year in the month of November.
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Construction Worker Under HBOCWWB:
Step 01: The construction worker should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building & Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)- Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID
• Select a family member for registration
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: Aadhaar Verification before Registration: Provide your Aadhaar number and tick mark the checkbox for the declaration. Click on the “Continue” button.
Step 06: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 07: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, a worker can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
Step 08: To avail of the benefits, a worker has to pay the registration fee and add a work experience of a minimum of 90 days of the preceding year.
Step 09: Now, the worker needs to add work experience, to add 90 days of experience, the applicant has to fill in all the details where he/she has worked.
Step 10: The schemes and other benefits can be availed once the 90 days’ work experience is approved by the
Officer.
Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number & password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
HBOCW Registration User Manual                     HBOCW Registration Basic Instructions & Features
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter Card
Passport-size photograph
Undertaking
Work Slip
Proof of residence
Ration Card
Bank account details
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Birth Certificate (If applicable)
Disability Certificate
No Objection Certificate issued by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment
