Award of Scholarships to Outstanding NCC Cadets of the UT of Puducherry
Puducherry
CadetCampNCCParadeScholarship
Details
The "Award of Scholarships to Outstanding NCC Cadets of the UT of Puducherry" by the Directorate of School Education, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to recognize and support outstanding NCC cadets. The scheme offers scholarships to eligible candidates in various divisions: Senior Division Boys (Up to graduation), Senior Wing Girls, Junior Division Boys (Up to 12th Standard), and Junior Wing Girls.

Benefits
Rate of Scholarships
Senior Division Cadets: ₹500 per month.
Junior Division Cadets: ₹250 per month.
Number of Scholarships
34 fresh scholarships are awarded every year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than five years.
The applicant should have attended 75% of parades in the year.
The applicant should have attended the eligible number of camps.
The applicant should not have been discharged from the Institution/NCC under disciplinary grounds.
The awards will be available in the following divisions: Senior Division Boys Up to graduation; Senior Wing Girls; Junior Division Boys Up to 12 Standard; and Junior Wing Girls.
NOTE: Awardees cannot receive other regular scholarships or stipends but can enjoy fee concessions, if any, from their institutions.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit their Company/Troop Commander and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Company/Troop Commander.
Step 4: The Officer commanding the NCC Unit will scrutinize the applications and forward them to the Group Commander, N.C.C. Group Head Quarters, Puducherry with their due recommendations.
Documents Required
Nativity/Citizenship/Residential Certificate, issued by the Officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar.
Stamp-sized Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Public Information Certificate (PIC).
NCC Certificate, issued by the NCC unit.
NCC Camp Attendance Record.
Character Certificate, issued by the Institution/NCC unit, stating that the applicant has not been discharged due to disciplinary reasons.
Marksheet or Degree Certificate (up to graduation), if applying under "Senior Division Boys Up to graduation" or "Senior Wing Girls" division.
Marksheet (up to 12th Standard), if applying under "Junior Division Boys Up to 12 Standard" or "Junior Wing Girls" division.
Any other document as required by the Directorate of School Education.
