MeitY Digital India Internship Scheme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
E-GovernanceInclusive And Sustainable GrowthInternship
Details
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has introduced an Internship scheme named "Digital India Internship Scheme".  It's aims is to invite applications from the students with active participation in the learning process through putting into practice the knowledge acquired in the classrooms. Candidates having exposure in the area of intended internship with good academic background and having higher qualification, based on need shall be given preference. There are total 24 slots available for the Internship in 18 different types of areas. The Internship will be offered at New Delhi. The mode of internship i.e. Virtual or physical will be decided by the concerned Supervisor/mentor, based on the requirement. The minimum duration of internship shall be of two months, extendable up to three months, depending on the performance of the candidate and requirement of the Ministry.

Benefits
A token stipend of ₹10,000/- per month would be paid to an Intern, subject to satisfactory performance, duly certified by his Supervisor/Mentor.
Certificates will be issued by the Ministry to the Interns upon the completion of the internship and submission of the Report duly countersigned and accepted by the Competent Authority.
Eligibility
Indian students from recognized universities in India who have secured at least 60% marks in the last held degree or certificate examination and pursuing:
B.E/B.Tech/M.E/M.Tech (Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)/Computer Science (CS)/ IT/ Electronics & Communications (EC)/ Electronics/ Electrical).
M.Sc.(CS/IT/ Electronics/ Electrical)
MCA/DOEACC ‘B’ level
L.L.B [refer note- (i)]
B.E/B.Tech/ (Electronics and Communications (EC)/Electronics, and MBA (Finance) OR M.Sc. (Electronics) and MBA (Finance) [refer note - (ii)]
Note :-
(i) Students would be considered for internship only for ‘Cyber Laws’ and ‘Public policy on Internet’ areas.
(ii) Students would be considered for internship only for “Project appraisal and Funding methodologies for electronics and semiconductor manufacturing units vis a vis international economies” area.
(iii) Only students who are in the previous one year will be eligible. 
(iv) The Interns will be shortlisted and selected by the respective organisations/Groups/Divisions for their concerned domain.
(v) For selection of interns, personal or Skype Interview, may be conducted, if deemed necessary. 
(vi) List of selected candidates would be displayed on the web portal. 
(vii) The Interns will be required to submit a Report on the work undertaken at the end of the internship to this Ministry.
(viii) The students must furnish a “No–Demand Certificate” to this Ministry in the prescribed format after completion of project work along with a soft copy and hard copy of the project report. 
Application Process
Online
Interested and eligible students may visit http://meity.gov.in/schemes. 
Click on the option "MeitY Digital India Internship Scheme".
Click on "Apply for Internship" option.
Applicant needs to register on https://serviceonline.gov.in/ to apply for this scheme.
After successful registration, applicant will log in using his/her credentials.
After log in, select view all available services under apply for service option.
Search for "MEITY DIGITAL INDIA INTERNSHIP SCHEME 2024"
Click on the service description link to open the application form.
Follow the instructions to fill the application form along with required annexures and submit.
Note your application reference number and keep monitoring for further required action, if any.
Documents Required
Recommendation Letter from Sponsoring/Forwarding Institution where the applicant is currently enrolled in.
When marks of pursuing a degree are obtained in CGPA, a letter from Institute stating the formula used for conversion in percentage.
Passport size photo and signature in digital format (png, jpg)
