E-Rikshaw Sahayta Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmploymentEmpowermentFinancial Assistance
Details
Chhattisgarh State Government started a scheme "E-Rikshaw Sahayta Yojana" for unorganized worker in 20 December 2016. The main objective of the scheme to empower the unorganized worker through provide them financial assistance. 

Benefits
Financial Assistance
Registered unorganized labor individuals will need to cover the expenses of ₹ 10,000 for scheme execution.
A grant of ₹ 30,000/- will be provided by the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Worker State Social Security Board.
The remaining sum will be extended to the Rikshaw/Auto Driver as a bank loan, with the beneficiary responsible for repaying it within a specified timeframe and at the interest rate determined by the bank.
The Board will only transfer its contribution to the beneficiary's account once all the necessary loan-related documents are submitted to the board.
Eligibility
Only auto/cycle rickshaw drivers who are registered with the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers' State Social Security Board are eligible for this scheme.
Registered workers must be between 18 and 50 years old.
Registered workers must be registered with the RTO.
Registered workers must have a commercial vehicle driver's license.
Workers must have been registered with the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers' State Social Security Board for at least 90 days.
Each beneficiary can only receive the benefits of this scheme once.
Beneficiaries who have already received benefits from any other equivalent scheme offered by the state government are not eligible for the benefits of this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Copy of ration card.
Bank Account Details.
Receipt of e-rickshaw.
