Mukhya Mantri Sharmik Surksha Yojana- Haryana Labour Welfare Board
Haryana
DeathFinancial AssistanceLabourWorker
Details
The scheme “Mukhya Mantri Sharmik Surksha Yojana” is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board (HLWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹5,00,000/- will be provided to the widows/dependents of workers employed in industrial and commercial institutions in Haryana, in the event of the worker's death while working at the workplace. The assistance is provided in the event of the death of both unregistered and registered workers with the Haryana Labour Welfare Board. 

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹5,00,000/- will be provided to the widows/dependents of workers in the event of the worker's death while working at the workplace.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the widow/dependent of the deceased worker.
The deceased worker should have been employed in an industrial or commercial establishment in Haryana.
There is no fixed service period required for the worker.
There is no fixed monthly salary requirement for the worker.
Applications must be submitted within two years from the date of the worker's death.
Financial assistance is provided under this scheme for the death of a worker primarily caused by workplace incidents within the organization's premises or on the way to the hospital for treatment. This also covers deaths resulting from other causes such as natural disasters, heart attacks, snake or other poisonous creature bites, fire, or building collapses within the organization.
Assistance is also provided to widows/dependents of unregistered workers who die or become disabled due to incidents like fire, building collapse, etc. within the establishment.
Application Process
Online
Apply for scheme benefits through the Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Full Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and login through the email ID that is used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, search for the scheme and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and Click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Documents Required
Smart Card /Office ID Proof of worker
Employee Certificate
Employer Certificate
Employee Salary Slip (Previous Month)
Death Certificate
Disabilities Certificate
Medical Certificate
F.I.R/D.D.R/ Post-mortem Report
ESI Card
Affidavit (fully dependent upon the deceased worker and earlier he/she has not availed of the said scheme)
Undertaking (self)
Ration Card
Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID)
Bank account details
Any other documents as required
