Assistance for Delivery of a Child or the Miscarriage of Pregnancy or the Termination of Pregnancy
Tamil Nadu
ChildFinancial AssistancePregnant Women
Details
The scheme "Assistance for Delivery of a Child or the Miscarriage of Pregnancy or the Termination of Pregnancy" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. Under this scheme, The Tamil Nadu Folk Artiste's Welfare Board offers assistance for the delivery of a child, miscarriage, or termination of pregnancy to registered female folk artists.

Benefits
Financial Assistance:
Child Delivery – ₹6,000/- (₹1,000/- per month for six months).
Miscarriage – ₹3,000/-.
Termination – ₹3,000/-.
Note: Assistance is available only twice.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a registered female folk artist.
The applicant can be eligible only if she is giving birth to a child or has a miscarriage or termination of pregnancy. 
The applicant should not have any dues payable to the board.
The female folk artist is not eligible if already has two children.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the regional office and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form XIV from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Director/Deputy Director in the regional offices.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Assistant Director/Deputy Director to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Registration Card of the Folk Artist. 
Birth Certificate of Child or 
Certificate of miscarriage of pregnancy, or termination of pregnancy (from Registered Maternity Doctor).
