Marriage Assistance - Folk Artist
Tamil Nadu
Financial AssistanceFolk ArtistMarriage
Details
The scheme "Marriage Assistance" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This scheme provides financial assistance of ₹2,000/- for the marriage of registered folk artists, or their son or daughter. The assistance aims to support the cultural community by helping with marriage expenses.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹2,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a registered folk artist.
The registered folk artist must have no dues payable to the Board.
The registered folk artist can apply for financial assistance for their marriage or adult children (son or daughter). 
The registered folk artist and the person getting married must attain the age prescribed by law for marriage. 
If both husband and wife are registered folk artists, only one of them is eligible for this assistance per marriage.
The family of a registered folk artiste can avail of this assistance only twice.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the regional office and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form XIII from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Director/Deputy Director in the regional offices.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Assistant Director/Deputy Director to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Registration Card of the Folk Artist.  
Certificate from the Village Administrative Officer or Revenue Officer (stating that the applicant has not obtained this assistance from any other schemes)
Marriage Invitation.
Marriage Photo. 
Witness Photo (from anyone who attained the marriage). 
