Education Assistance - Folk Artist
Tamil Nadu
ArtistFinancial AssistanceStudent
Details
The "Education Assistance - Folk Artist" scheme was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This scheme provides financial assistance for the education of the children of registered folk artists. The assistance aims to support the educational pursuits of their children from school to higher education, including vocational and professional courses.

Benefits
Financial Assistance for the children of registered folk artistes
Girl and Boy children studying 10th - ₹1,000/- 
Girl children studying 11th - ₹1,000/- 
Girl and Boy children studying 12th - ₹1,500/- 
Regular Degree Course with Hostel facility - ₹3,250/- 
Regular Post Graduate Course with Hostel facility - ₹5,000/-
Professional Degree Course with Hostel facility - ₹6,000/- 
Professional PG Course with Hostel facility - ₹10,000/- 
ITI or Polytechnic Course with Hostel Facility - ₹2,200/-
Eligibility
The registered folk artist's son or daughter.
The registered folk artist must have no dues payable to the Board.
The registered folk artist's son or daughter should be studying in a government or government-recognized institution.
Assistance is available for up to two children per family.
If both husband and wife are registered folk artists, only one of them is eligible for this assistance.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the regional office and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form X(son or daughter), XI(daughter), XII(son or daughter) from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Director/Deputy Director in the regional offices.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Assistant Director/Deputy Director to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Registration Card of the Folk Artist.
Certificate from the Educational Institution Head or Officer.
Certificate from the Hostel Warden.
Proof of Studying. 
