Financial Support Scheme
Ministry of Education
Delhi UniversityEWSFee WaiverFinancial AssistanceOBC
Details
“Financial Support Scheme” implemented by the Delhi University aims to provide equity and access to quality education to the economically weak students. This scheme also provides financial support for such students which will include fee waiver of all components of fee paid by students (except examination fee & hostel fee).

Benefits

S. No. Family income (in ₹) per annum Fee waiver (percentage) Remarks
Category 1 Less than or equal to ₹ 4,00,000/ Up to 100% Actual fee or up to a maximum of ₹ 10,000/-
Category 2 Between ₹ 4,00,000/- and ₹ 8,00,000/- Up to 50% Actual fee or up to a maximum of ₹ 8,000/-
Eligibility
Should be a bonafide student.
The student should be studying in any UG/ PG Degree program at a Department/ Institution/Centre of University of Delhi.
Family income of the student’s should be less than ₹ 8,00,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Eligible students can fill in the online Application Form available on the website of the Dean Students’ Welfare Office.
Step 2: Students must submit a copy of their Application Form and all documents after due attestation and recommendation from the Head/ Director of the concerned Department/ Centre/ Institute at DSW office.
Step 3: The Schedule for the submission of the hard/ printed copy of the application form will be declared in the DSW website.
Helpdesk:
For any queries kindly contact: fss@dsw.du.ac.in
Office Address:
Dean Students’ Welfare,
Conference Centre (Gate No. 4),
Opposite Botany Department,
University of Delhi,
Delhi – 110007
Documents Required
Copy of EWS/OBC-NCL Certificate or Annual Family Income Certificate issued by competent authority. (Income Certificate signed by a notary will not be accepted).
Self-attested copies of latest income Tax Returns (2022-23) of the following family members:
Father,
Mother,
Sister(s)(Unmarried),
Brother(s) (Unmarried and below 25 years of age),
Copy of PAN card(s) of all the above.
Signed copy of the Undertaking Form.
Copy of Bonafide Certificate signed by the Head/Director of the Centre/Department/ Institute.
Copy of the mark sheet of the last exam passed.
Copy of the latest Fee Receipt.
Copy of Bank Pass Book showing the student's name, Account number and IFSC code or a cancelled cheque.
