Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) Internship
Ministry Of New and Renewable Energy
GraduateInternshipPost-GraduateStipendStudent
Details
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy launched the "SECI Internship" program under Solar Energy Corporation of India Ltd. The Internship Program will serve as an opportunity for students to gain understanding about Renewable as a sector and SECI as an employer and help them evaluate future career opportunities. The Program will be structured, short-term, supervised placements often focused around particular tasks or projects with defined timescales. The work should be meaningful and must be mutually beneficial for intern and the Corporation. 

Area of Interest:
Renewable Energy and Solar-Wind Hybrids.
Floating Solar.
Solar Manufacturing and Battery Energy Storage Systems.
Solar Park development.
Solar Rooftop projects and Off-grid Solar.

Duration:
Engineering/M-Tech students: 3 & 6 months
CA/CA (Inter),CS/ICWA/ICWA(Inter)/CMA students: 6 months to 3 years
MBA students: 7 weeks to 6 months

Benefits
Stipend:
For training periods less than 6 months: ₹8,000/- per month
For training periods from 6 months to 3 years: ₹12,000/- per month

Completion Certificate:
HR issues a certificate upon successful completion of the internship, confirming attendance and work supervision.
NOTE: The internship program does not include compensation of any kind, boarding, lodging, transportation etc. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a student.
The student should engage in research/pursue Engineering Graduate & Postgraduate Degrees/Ph.D. students in Renewable Energy/CA/CA(Inter)/CS/ICWA/ICWA(Inter)/CMA students/MBA students in HR/Finance/IT/CC from recognized institutions in India or abroad.
The applicant must have his own laptop for the internship. 
The applicant must maintain a regular schedule and demonstrate professionalism. 
The applicant must sign a non-disclosure agreement to protect SECI's data.

NOTE: SECI shall provide them with working space, internet facility, and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned Heads. However, CA/CA(Inter)/CS/ICWA/ICWA(Inter)CMA/MBA interns may be provided the desktop as per the requirement.
Application Process
Online
Application widow will be open from 1st to 10th of each month.
Applicant have to visit the official website.
Click on SECI Internship under the career option in top menu.
Click on the register button.
Now fill out the Internship Form with the following details.
Name
Father’s Name
Date of Birth
Education Qualification
Qualification Status : Pursuing / Completed
Area of Interest
Email Id
Mobile/Contact Number
Address
CV / Resume upload
Desired Internship Period
Now submit.

Note-1: The applicant can apply for an internship only once during a financial year.
Note-2: No fee will be charged to the interns.
Documents Required
CV / Resume
Letter from the institution confirming enrollment and "no objection" for allowing their student to undergo Internship program.
