Silicosis Rehabilitation Pension- Haryana Silicosis Board
Haryana
PensionRehabilitationSilicosisWorker
Details
The scheme “Silicosis Rehabilitation Pension” is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, a monthly pension of ₹4,000/- is given to the Silicosis-affected worker categorized as category (A, B, or C) according to the ILO Classification, until he/she remains alive. Only workers who are confirmed to be suffering from Silicosis by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, Haryana, will be eligible for the assistance.
Note: Silicosis, an incurable lung disease prevalent in workplaces like stone crushers and mines, is a notifiable disease in Haryana under the Factories Act, of 1948, and the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE & CS) Act, of 1996. Upon confirmation by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, affected workers are swiftly referred to hospitals for treatment; those under the Employee State Insurance Act, 1948 receive care at ESI hospitals, while others are provided free treatment at district hospitals and medical colleges by the Health Department, with the option for reimbursement for necessary resources unavailable locally, facilitated by the Labour Department.
Symptoms of Silicosis:  
• Associated with T.B  
• Shortness of breath  
• Fatigue 
• Loss of appetite (Anorexia).  
• Chest pain; dry with non-productive cough (Whooping Cough). 
• Respiratory failure
• Eventually leads to death

Benefits
Under this scheme, a monthly pension of ₹4,000/- is given to the Silicosis-affected worker categorized as category (A, B, or C) according to the ILO Classification, until he/she remains alive.
Eligibility
Only workers who are confirmed to be suffering from Silicosis by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, Haryana, will be eligible for the assistance.
The Silicosis-affected worker should be categorized as either category A, B, or C according to the ILO Classification.
The worker should have been registered with the Haryana Silicosis Board.
The worker should have been employed in a factory or at a construction site.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Registration under the Haryana Silicosis Board :
Step 01: The applicant may visit the nearest Labour Office and collect the application form. The Application Performa (Annexure I) may also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: Fill out the application form with all required details, ensuring accuracy and completeness.
Step 03: Attach all necessary documents, including medical certificates, proof of identity, etc.
Step 04: Submit the completely filled application form along with supporting documents to the Assistant Director, Industrial Health of your concerned jurisdiction.
Step 05: The Assistant Director will review the application and then forward it to the Office of the Labour Commissioner-cum-Welfare Commissioner, Haryana.
Step 06: Await notification from the Labour Department, Haryana regarding the approval or any further requirements for your application.
Step 07: Upon approval, the applicant will receive their registration details.
Apply for scheme benefits:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the nearest Labour Office and collect the application form. The Application Performa (Annexure V) may also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: Fill out the application form with all required details, ensuring accuracy and completeness.
Step 03: Attach all necessary documents, including medical certificates, proof of identity, and the certificate of being the widow/widower or nominee, if applicable, etc.
Step 04: Submit the completely filled application form along with supporting documents to the Assistant Director, Industrial Health of your concerned jurisdiction.
Step 05: The Assistant Director will review the application and then forward it to the Office of the Labour Commissioner-cum-Welfare Commissioner, Haryana.
Step 06: Await notification from the Labour Department regarding the approval or any further requirements for your application.
Step 07: Upon approval, the financial assistance will be processed and provided to the applicant as per the scheme's guidelines.
Documents Required
Documents required for registration under the Haryana Silicosis Board:
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Medical Report (X-Ray, CT Scan, Medical Prescription, Any Other)
General Document ( ESI Card, Any Other)
Work experience document
Proof of residence
Ration Card
Bank account details
Proof of age
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefits:
Identity Card of the worker
Copy of Aadhaar Card & Voter ID Card
All medical records/reports
Copy of Bank Passbook
Any other documents as required
