Tholkappiar Award
Puducherry
AuthorAwardFinancial AssistanceWriter
Details
The scheme "Tholkappiar Award" was launched by the Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹10,000/- to writers and authors for outstanding research publications in Tamil literature who are natives of the Union Territory of Puducherry either by birth or domicile. The application was accepted offline. 

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹10,000/-. with an award and certificate. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a writer/author.
The applicant should be born in Puducherry or a resident of Puducherry for five years or have continuous residence before the date of application in the jurisdiction to exist.
The applicant should submit research books not less than 150 pages.
The applicant should submit texts that must have been printed and published as a first edition by December 31 of the specified year.
Essays and dissertations submitted for university degrees or examinations are not eligible.
A one-time awardee is ineligible to apply for the subsequent four years.
The texts submitted for competition should not be an abridgment, adaptation, translation, or paraphrase of another text.
Novels, short stories, poetry, drama, travelogues, and collections of essays are not eligible for the Tholkappiar Award.
The thesis editor should be in Tamil language only.
The thesis submitted for the Tholkappiar Award should be published in the calendar year preceding the year of the award. It should not have been published in the previous year.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant downloads the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture, No.1, Roman Roland Road, Puducherry 605 001.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).

NOTE 1: Five texts received for the competition cannot be returned for any reason. 
NOTE 2: Only application forms sent with the author's signature will be accepted for the competition.
Documents Required
Passport-size Photo.
Residence Certificate.
Birth Certificate.
Author Biographies. 
Five Copies of the Text. 
