Deen Dayal Divyangjan Pension Scheme - Assam
Assam
DivyangjanFinancial AssistancePensionPerson With Disability
Details
In pursuance of the Persons with Disability Act, 1995 (now replaced by the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,2016), the Social Welfare Department, Assam has been taking various welfare schemes for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) with a view to empower them so that they could cope with in various fields with their unique abilities. As such, the "Deen Dayal Divyangjan Pension Scheme" has been undertaken during 2018-19 which has been considered to be one of the most beneficial schemes under the Social Welfare Department, Assam.
Objective of the scheme:
The objective of the scheme is to provide a monthly pension of ₹1,000/- to each differently-abled person for taking care of their health. All the persons with disabilities having Disability Certificates issued by the competent Govt. authority of Health Services of the Districts of Assam will be covered under the scheme of "Deen Dayal Divyangjan Pension Scheme". The RPwD Act. 2016 has notified 21 Nos. of types of disabilities.

Benefits
The beneficiary will receive a monthly pension of ₹1,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a resident of Assam.
The applicant must have Disability Certificate possessing 40% of disability and above issued by the competent Govt. Authority of Health Services of the district.
No educational qualification is required.
There will be no age bar limit.
The applicant must possess his/her own Bank Account Number of any Nationalized Bank. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The person intending to apply for the pension is to furnish the required particulars in the prescribed format only.
Step 02: The application form shall be obtainable free of cost from the local offices of the District Social Welfare Officer or the Child Development Project Officers.
Step 03: The applicant has to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents with the application form. The application form shall be submitted in the prescribed format to the concerned District Social Welfare Office.
Step 04: The District Social Welfare Officer of the concerned district shall be the competent authority for verification of the contents of the applications (Application Form attached). After scrutiny of the applications, the District Social Welfare Officer shall convey a meeting of the District Level Selection Committee which will be constituted and notified by the Govt. 
Step 05: The District Level Selection Committee shall have to finalize the list of beneficiaries observing all the eligibility criteria as per norms. The District Level Selection Committee shall recommend and approve the final list for onward submission to the Directorate for necessary action in accordance with the financial sanction and release of the fund directly to the NC Nos. of beneficiaries through the DBT system.

Note 01: The District Social Welfare Officer shall act as the Nodal Officer for the implementation of the scheme in the District. 
Note 02: While filling the form, it has also to be ensured that the name of the beneficiary should be matched (capital/small letter, spelling, etc.) in accordance with the name as printed in the Bank Pass Book while preparation of the list as it will invariably be required to make the Bank Authority facilitate to carry out the process of the transaction.
Note 03: The recommended list of the beneficiaries to be received from the districts shall be considered eligible to receive a pension under the scheme until cases of death or shifting of any of the beneficiaries arise therein.
Note 04: There is no upper limit or target limit on the number of beneficiaries for each district. The District Level Selection Committee may send an additional list any number of times as and when new beneficiaries are verified by District Level Selection Committee.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar card, Voter ID Card etc.
Domicile certificate of Assam
Disability Certificate issued by the competent Govt. Authority of Health Services of the district. Disability Certificate possessing 40% of disability and above will be considered to be eligible for the scheme (certificate to be enclosed with the application form).
The applicant’s bank details i.e. IFSC Code of the Bank etc. (Front page of Bank Account's photocopy to be enclosed)
One passport-size photo (to be affixed to the necessary box of the application form)
Address proof
Note: In special cases, such as minor/mentally retarded/ill beneficiaries, etc., the Joint Account with Father/ Mother or Legal Guardian will be considered.
