Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities to Scheduled Castes by Establishing Livestock Units under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana
Haryana
Animal HusbandryDairyingEmploymentFinancial AssistanceLivestockMilch AnimalsScheduled CasteSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities to Scheduled Castes by Establishing Livestock Units under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana” is implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, an unemployed resident of Haryana belonging to the Scheduled Caste category can avail a subsidy for purchasing livestock. This subsidy will be provided after the establishment of the livestock units and can be availed as a loan by the beneficiary. The scheme covers the establishment of dairy units with 2 milch animals, 10+1 piggery units, and 15+1 sheep/goat units.

Benefits
Financial Assistance under the Scheme:
Establishment of Dairy units of 2 milch animals:
50% subsidy on the cost of milch animals which has been availed as a loan for the purchase of these milch animals by the beneficiary for the establishment of dairy units of 2 milch animals;
Establishment of 10+1 Piggery units:
50% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for establishment of a 10+1 Piggery unit.
A maximum amount of ₹50,000/- will be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.
Establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat units:
90% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat unit.
A maximum amount of ₹88,200/- will be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.
Financial Assistance for Insurance under the Scheme:
Insurance assistance will be provided as per the available departmental scheme if operational during the year, otherwise the beneficiaries will have to arrange for insurance of animals and shall pay the insurance premium.
Eligibility
The applicant should be 18 to 60 years of age and a resident of Haryana.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
The applicant must be unemployed.
There are no mandatory educational qualifications or training requirements.
The applicant should have a space/shed for keeping animals.
The applicant would have to submit a Self-Declaration for being unemployed and for undertaking to abide by other conditions as required under the Scheme. 
Application Process
Offline
Online - Via CSCs
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, applicants should visit the Deputy Director's office in their district and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill out the application form and attach all the relevant documents.
Step 03: Submit the completely filled application form and attached documents to the concerned official in the office.
Step 04: The Deputy Director of the concerned district will examine the applications on a first-come, first-served basis and process them accordingly.
Documents Required
1. Parivaar Pahchan Patra (PPP ID)
2. Copy of Aadhaar Card
3. Copy of PAN Card
4. Scheduled Caste Certificate
5. Copy of Bank Passbook or Cancelled Cheque
6. Photo of availability of shed/space for keeping animals
7. Any other documents as required
