Small Business in Service/Trading Sector for Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan Swavalamban Yojana)
Haryana
DisabilityDivyangLoanPwDService SectorSmall BusinessSwavalambanTrading Sector
Details
The scheme "Small Business in Service/Trading Sector for Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan Swavalamban Yojana)" is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, loans up to ₹50 lakhs are provided for self-employment to persons with disabilities in a wide range of income-generating activities under Agriculture and Allied Activities, Small Business/Artisan & Traditional Occupations, Transport Sector & Service Sector, and Technical & Professional Trades/Courses. Loans are provided to individuals falling under OH/VH/HH/MR categories at different rates of interest ranging from 5% to 9% per annum. Permanent residents of Haryana aged between 18 and 55 years, with a disability of 40% or more, are eligible to avail the benefits under this scheme.

Benefits
Under this scheme, loans up to ₹50,00,000/- are offered for self-employment to Persons with Disabilities across a wide range of income-generating activities, including Agriculture and Allied Activities, Small Business/Artisan & Traditional Occupations, Transport Sector & Service Sector, and Technical & Professional Trades/Courses.
Loans are provided to individuals falling under OH/VH/HH/MR categories at different rates of interest ranging from 5% to 9% per annum. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant should have a disability of at least 40%.
The applicant's age should be between 18 and 55 years. For persons with mental retardation, the eligible age is above 14 years. An age certificate issued by a competent authority authorized by the State Government, or as mentioned in the 10th certificate or any other government-issued certificate, will be the required document.
Unique Disability ID (UDID) registration under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India, is mandatory for loan amounts of ₹15 lakhs and above.
The applicant should have a Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID).
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. Link
Documents Required
Identity/Citizenship proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Proof of age
Resident Proof/Address Proof/Ownership Proof i.e. Haryana Domicile Certificate
Disability Certificate
Passport-size photograph of the applicant
Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID)
Bank account details
Any other documents as required
