Stipend Scheme For Scheduled Tribes - Poultry Training Stipend
Gujarat
Cash AssistancePoultry FarmingScheduled TribeStipendTraining
Details
The scheme “Stipend Scheme for Scheduled Tribes - Poultry Training Stipend” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare & Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to raise the income of poultry farmers of Schedule Tribes through scientific poultry farming training. Under this scheme, the beneficiary will be given a maximum ₹2000 (direct in bank account) stipend for six days of training and a poultry training certificate after completion of training.

Benefits
The beneficiary will be given maximum ₹2000 (direct in bank account) stipend for six days training. (Considering ₹300/- per day, ₹1800/- for 6 days as daily allowance and ₹200/- as to & fro transport fare with the maximum total stipend ₹2000/-)
Beneficiary will be given poultry training certificate after completion of training.
Eligibility
The benefits of this scheme will only be given to the adult of Schedule Tribes people of the society of Gujarat State.
The beneficiary will have to provide income proof and a caste certificate.
Females and beneficiaries Below Poverty Line will be given priority.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 01: The beneficiary has to apply online at I-Khedut Portal. https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/iKhedutPublicScheme/Public/frm_Public_ANH2_SchemeApplicaiton.aspx
Step 02: Click on the "Apply New" button and submit a new application.
Step 03: Click on the "Update Application" button to add corrections to the application.
Step 04: Once the application is done, confirm it. The application must be confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application.
Step 05: The application must be signed and submitted along with the supporting documents to the office address mentioned on the application” or “Application confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application Scanned copy of the application and other documents can be uploaded after confirming the application
Step 06: Take a printout of the confirmed application.
Note 01: It is mandatory to take a printout of the application (only applying online will not count as an application).
Note 02: Take a printout of the online application and submit it along with necessary documents to the office/office address mentioned on the application or after applying online on the I-Khedut Portal, take a printout of the application and scan it with signature/thumbprint and "Signed Application Print" on the portal. A copy can be uploaded by clicking on Upload" menu. "Other Document Upload" wherever applicable.
Note 03: The application will be inwardly taken online by the concerned officer/office only if the correct and sufficient documents are uploaded along with the application signed/fingerprinted by the beneficiary.
Note 04: If wrong/incomplete documents are uploaded online by the beneficiary, such application will not be inwarded online. In such circumstances, the beneficiary has to submit the remaining/correct documents to the concerned office within seven days of application.
Note 05: Scanned copy uploaded in PDF format should not exceed 200 KB in size.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Income Proof Certificate
Below Poverty Line Card (If applicable)
Residence proof
Caste Certificate
Disability Certificate from Competent Authority (only for PWDs) (if applicable)
Barcoded Ration Card (if applicable)
Savings Account Bank Passbook or Cancelled Check (if applicable)
