Mass Communication Internship Programme
Ministry Of Jal Shakti
EducationHonorariumInternMass CommunicationStudent
Details
The "Mass Communication Internship Programme" was launched by the Department of Water Resources, River Development, and Ganga Rejuvenation, Ministry of Jal Shakti. The internship programme is short-term exposure designed to engage students in undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate studies in the field of mass communication. The internship offers hands-on experience in media and social media activities, aiming to create awareness about the importance of water resources conservation and management.

Framework of internship:
First month of internship:
Learn about the department's IEC activities, Create social media content (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube), Plan social media strategy, and set targets.
Second month of internship:
Promote services and raise awareness, Engage and build relationships with the audience, Drive traffic and establish KPIs, Draft press releases for Department events.
Third month of internship:
Interact and research target audience, Analyze social media results, Publicize National Water Awards to attract applicants, and Draft speeches for senior officials on Department achievements.

Duration of internship: 
The internship duration is a minimum of three months, extendable up to six months on a monthly basis.

Number of students for internship: 
A maximum of three interns are selected for each internship duration.

Terms & Conditions for the Intern: 
Pursue the program with dedication and maintain discipline.
Maintain 90% attendance.
Attend a full-time internship physically in the main secretariat. 
Arrange your own accommodation.
Work hours: 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM, unless otherwise permitted.
Follow Department rules and regulations.
Internship is not a job or employment assurance.
Adhere to Department advice on external representations.
Poor performance may result in discontinuation of the internship.
Provide prior notice if disengaging from the internship.
Library use is for reference only; borrowing is not allowed.
Maintain confidentiality and do not disclose Department information.

Benefits
Honorarium:
An honorarium of ₹10,000/- per month will be paid to each intern.
Certificate:
A certificate will be received upon successful completion of the internship.
Facilities:
The department provides working space, internet facility, and other necessities as deemed fit by the Heads. 
Placement: 
Each selected intern will be posted with a Deputy Secretary, Director, Joint Secretary, or the office of the Secretary (WR, RD & GR) and will work closely with the IEC Section.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should be pursuing a BA/MA/PG in mass communication, journalism, public relations, MBA (Marketing)/ related fields or completed their degrees/diplomas in aforesaid course(s) from any recognized college/university. 
The applicant must have his own laptop for the internship. 
Required Skills and Interests:
Writing, communication, time management, organization, traditional and digital marketing, customer service, relationship building, strategic and analytical thinking, and creativity.
Academic Performance:
Undergraduate Students:
Completed/appeared in term end exams of the second year/4th semester of their bachelor's degree.
Secured at least 60% or equivalent marks in 12th class.

Recent Graduates/PG Students:
Appeared in the final exam or just completed Graduation/PG.
Waiting for admission for higher studies.
Secured 55% or more cumulative marks in all years/semesters of their graduation/post-graduation.

Postgraduate Students:
Completed/appeared in term end exams of the first year/2nd semester of their postgraduate program or pursuing research/PhD.
Secured at least 55% or equivalent marks in Graduation.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The student downloads the application form Annexure-I and the format of NOC is in Annexure-II. 
Step 02: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Student can email their applications in the prescribed format to: iec-mowr@nic.in. 

Submission of Report: 
At the end of the internship, each intern shall submit a detailed report on the work carried out and. if required, make a presentation on it. 

Selection Procedure:
Selected interns are advised to contact respective Offices/ Sections in the department for an entry pass during the internship. 
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Curriculum Vitae.
Identity Proof (Aadhar Card/Driving License/Pass Port/Voting Card).
500-word write-up “Reason for Joining as Intern in DOWR, RD & GR.
Pan Card.
Bank Passbook.
No Objection Certificate (NOC) from his/her respective college/university.
