Sanction of Motorized Three Wheeler to Orthopedically Challenged
Andhra Pradesh
EmpowermentPerson With DisabilitySelf-employedStudent
Details
The A.P. Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation, Andhra Pradesh launched scheme "Sanction of Motorized Three Wheeler to Orthopedically Challenged" under its Action Plan 2017-18, aims to provide Motorized Three Wheelers to orthopedically challenged persons. The Motorized Three Wheelers are distributed by the Assistant Directors, Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled & Senior Citizens, and District Managers, A.P. Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation.

Benefits
Free distribution of Motorized Three Wheeler. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Andhra Pradesh state. 
The applicant should have a loco-motor or orthopedic disability of not less than 80%. 
Only student and self-employed are eligible for this scheme. 
The applicant should be pursuing P.G./Professional courses or engaged in self-employment for not less than 3 years and be possessing a minimum educational qualification of 10th Class (pass).
The applicant should belong to the BPL family.
The applicant's age should be between 18-40 years. 
The applicant should possess a valid driving license issued under the Motor Vehicle Act. 
A person with mental retardation or illness is not eligible.
Severely Orthopedically Differently Abled persons seeking mobility aid support shall have the following physical parameters:
Having both the lower limbs weak or completely lost due to amputation, the upper limbs (both) should be strong enough to drive the vehicle (first preference shall be given to this category) or
Having a severe disability but managing to walk with the support of crutches/calipers/artificial limbs, both upper limbs should be strong enough to drive the vehicle
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The interested student needs to visit the official website. 
Step 02: Click on the "Online Applications" on the home page. 
Step 03: Select the category "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" 
Step 04: Now click on "Apply Online" respect to the scheme name.
Step 05: And confirm your registration. 

If applicant was not register earlier
Step 06: Answer the above registration question as "No". 
Step 07: Fill in your Aadhaar card name, Aadhaar number, Mobile number, email ID.
Step 08: Create a new password for this application.
Step 09: Click on "Register" After that get the registration number.

After the registration
Step 10: Click here to Login.
Step 11: Again, ask the same "Are you registered already: Yes/No Select "Yes".
Step 12: Enter email/mobile number and password.
Step 13: Click on "Login" and select the category again "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" .
Step 14: Fill out the application form for personal employment and disability detail.
Step 15: Click on "Submit".
Documents Required
Disability/SADAREM Certificate.
Bonafide Certificate.
Educational Certificate.
Driving License.
Medical Fitness Certificate from a government civil surgeon.
