Saraswati Vidya Yojana: Reimbursement of Fees for Diploma/Graduation and Post-Graduation Professional Courses
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
CollegeDiplomaGirlsGraduationPost-GraduationProfessional CoursesReimbursement Of FeesStudentUniversity
Details
“Reimbursement of Fees for Diploma/Graduation and Post-Graduation Professional Courses'' under the “Saraswati Vidya Yojana”has been implemented by the Directorate of Education, U.T. Administration Of DNH & DD. Under this scheme,  financial assistance is provided to the girl students pursuing higher education in professional courses of the U.T. Administration.
Objective of the "Saraswati Vidya Yojana”:
The UT Administration of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu has launched “Saraswati Vidya Yojana” on 25th February, 2021, for the girl students of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. The scheme aims to encourage girl students to continue education keeping in view the aim of:- “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao”.
Objective of the "Reimbursement of Fees for Diploma/Graduation and Post-Graduation Professional Courses" Sub-scheme:
The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to girl students pursuing higher education in professional courses thereby reducing gender disparity in the society. The reimbursement shall be made annually through Direct Benefit Transfer to the beneficiaries.

Benefits
Full Reimbursement for Low Income:
100% of tuition and academic fees will be reimbursed to girl students whose parental or husband's income is below ₹1,50,000/-.
Partial Reimbursement for Higher Income:
50% of tuition and academic fees will be reimbursed to girl students whose parental or husband's income is above ₹1,50,000/-.
Maximum Reimbursement Limits:
For diploma and undergraduate professional courses, the maximum reimbursement is ₹2,50,000/- per year.
For postgraduate professional courses, the maximum reimbursement is ₹3,50,000/- per year.
Extended Reimbursement for 1.5-Year Courses:
For graduate professional courses with a 1.5-year academic session, the maximum reimbursement is ₹3,75,000/- per academic year.
For postgraduate professional courses with a 1.5-year academic session, the maximum reimbursement is ₹5,25,000/- lakh per academic year.
Additional Hostel Allowance:
An additional allowance covering 50% of hostel charges (excluding mess charges), capped at ₹30,000/- per year, will be provided. This allowance is in addition to the maximum reimbursement limits specified above.
Note:
The accommodation fees of the students staying as paying Guest or in a flat system shall not be reimbursed.
While calculating Tuition and Academic Fees, the fees such as Capitation Fee, Infrastructure Fee and Development Fee will not be considered.
In case the Hostel Charges are inclusive of Mess Charges and the same is not mentioned separately in Fee Receipt, the Hostel Charges will be considered as 50% of the total amount of the fee receipt with the capping of ₹30,000/- per Year. Therefore, 50% of the benefit of the considered 50% amount will be reimbursed.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a girl.
The applicant should be a student.
Parents/Husband/Guardian must be domiciled residents of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu for the girl student.
The student should have studied continuously for five years in any High School/Higher Secondary School in the UT, including the qualifying examination (SSC/HSC).
Only the first two daughters of a family are eligible for benefits under this scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Download and fill the prescribed Application Form.
Step 2: Attach all the mandatory documents along with the photo (self attested, if required).
Step 3: Submit the application through Registered Post/Speed post/By hand along with mandatory documents to the Respective District Education Office as mentioned below before the due date as mentioned by the authority from time to time.
Postal Address Of District Education Office Of Respective District:

Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman Diu
District Education Office, Room No. 110, 1st Floor, Lekha Bhawan, 66KV Rd. Amli, Silvassa, DNH Pin Code - 396230, Ph.-0260-2642098, Email-id: doc-dnh@nic.in Directorate of Education, Shiksha Sadan, B/h Collectorate, Dholar Moti Daman, Daman. Pin Code - 396220 Ph.- 0260 2230126, Email: id- diredu-dd@nic.in District Education Office, Collectorate (Old Girl's High School Campus), Nr. Shreeji Store, Diu. Pin Code - 362520, Ph.-02875-252199, Email-id-edn-diu@yahoo.in
Documents Required
Original Fee Receipts.
Copy of Domicile Certificate of applicant as per clause II(4) above issued by Competent Authority of UT Administration D&NH and DD.
Copy of Income Certificate of the parent or Husband (in case married) issued by Competent Authority of UT Administration D&NH and DD in case of income below ₹1,50,000/-.
Copy of the relevant order issued by the concerned state with respect to Fee Fixation of the respective college/institute.
Copy Annual Exam/Semester result of the respective Academic Year for which claim for reimbursement of fees under the scheme is made.
Self attested copy of current year examination Marksheet.
Self-attested copy of Bonafide or Schooling Certificate stating Continuous last 05 years of study in UT Administration D&NH and DD.
Copy of Aadhar card.
Copy of Bank Pass book (Aadhar Seeded).
Declaration regarding availing benefit only under the Saraswati Vidya Yojana Scheme and that no claim is made in any of the other schemes for respective Academic Year for which the claim has been made.
Declaration from parents/ guardian regarding application for reimbursement of fees not more than 02 girls‘ children of the family.
