Financial Assistance to Blind Ex-Servicemen
Haryana
BlindESMEx-ServicemanFinancial AssistanceSainik
Details
The scheme "Financial Assistance to Blind Ex-servicemen" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/‐ per month shall be granted to those Permanent Blind Ex-servicemen who are bonafide resident of the Haryana State and are not in receipt of any kind of pension financial assistance either from the Haryana State Government or from any Department of Government of India or from anybody controlled by Central State Government.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month is given to the 100% permanent blind ex-servicemen, with an annual increase of ₹400/- w.e.f. 01.11.2017 every year in November.
Note: Subject to the condition that the application/claim case is found in order, financial assistance to the permanent blind ex-serviceman will be sanctioned with effect from the first day of the following month in which case is sanctioned by the competent sanctioning authority of Rajya Sainik Board.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bona fide resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be a 100% permanently blind ex-serviceman.
The applicant should not be in receipt of any kind of pension or financial assistance either from the Haryana State Government, any Department of the Government of India, or any entity controlled by the Central or State Government.
Note 1: The definition of Ex-Servicemen for the purpose of eligibility for financial assistance shall be effective as notified by the Ministry of Defence Government of India from time to time.
Note 2: The old beneficiaries whose cases for grant of financial assistance have already been sanctioned prior to the issue of these guidelines shall continue to get the financial assistance at enhanced rates and they need not apply afresh. However, payment shall be discontinued with immediate effect who fail to submit their survival verification proofs every year from the revenue authorities.
Note 3: Payment of financial assistance to those beneficiaries shall also be stopped immediately who fail to submit their survival verification proofs every year from the revenue authorities in the month of April. Secretary, Zila Sainik Board shall be personally responsible for any lapse in this regard.
Note 4: Every applicant shall have to produce a certificate issued by the concerned District Social Welfare Officer to the effect that the applicant is not getting any financial assistance Pension from the Social Justice & Empowerment Department of Haryana.
Note 5: If any beneficiary, after the sanction of the financial assistance under this scheme, is found drawing any type of financial assistance from any other Deptt. of Haryana Govt. or pension from any Department of Govt. of India. He shall be permanently debarred from getting the financial assistance under this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’.
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined documents form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 05: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Note: All the applications received by the Zila Sainik Boards will be scrutinized at the level of the Zila Sainik Boards itself and the applications found fit for grant of financial assistance will be forwarded with all relevant documents to Rajya Sainik Board with clear recommendation of the Secretary, Zila Sainik Board. 
Documents Required
Copy of Ex-servicemen Identity Card
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Aadhaar Card
Original Discharge Book of Ex‐Serviceman (Complete)
Haryana Resident Certificate
Revenue Report verified from Tehsildar
Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar Number.
Blind Certificate indicating the percentage of disability from competent Medical Authority.
Non-Employment Certificate
Delay Report
Applicant’s Photo ID card (Ration Card/Driving License/ Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
NOC from the concerned District Social Welfare Department regarding not receiving any Financial Assistance/Pension
Affidavit for verifying the particulars given by the Ex‐Serviceman
Any other documents as required
Note 1: The applicants will have to produce a Domicile Certificate issued by the competent authority.
Note 2: Every applicant under this scheme will submit a Medical Certificate issued by a competent Medical authority stating that he is 100% permanent Blind.
Note 3: The original Discharge book issued by the concerned Record Office of the Ex-servicemen will have to be submitted by the applicant for scrutiny of the case which will be returned through the respective Zila Sainik Board after scrutiny of the claim case.
Note 4: Every application for claiming financial assistance under this scheme will be supported by an affidavit in the prescribed form duly attested by the first Class Magistrate containing all necessary information in support of the application.
