Additional Pension to Widow of Ex-Serviceman having No Child
Haryana
Additional PensionEx-ServicemanSainikWidow
Details
The scheme "Additional Pension to Widow of Ex-Serviceman having No Child" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, an additional amount of ₹100/- per month, in addition to the pension amount, is provided to the widow of an ex-serviceman who dies while in service but not in any battle. The additional amount is given only to the widows of ex-servicemen who have no children, irrespective of the rank of ex-servicemen, until her death or remarriage.

Benefits
An additional amount of ₹100/- per month is given to the widow of an ex-serviceman, irrespective of his rank, until her death or remarriage.
Mode of Payment:
Each Secretary of District Sainik Board will make payment of additional pension on a quarterly basis by money order or in cash, as may be convenient.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the widow of an ex-serviceman. A ‘widow’ means the widow of a member of the Armed Forces whose death has taken place while in service but not in any battle.
The widow should be a resident of Haryana.
The benefit is provided only to the widows of Ex-Servicemen who have no children, irrespective of the rank of ex-serviceman, until her death or remarriage.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined Affidavit form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 05: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
1. Copy of Ex-servicemen /Widow of Ex-servicemen Identity Card
2. Parivar Pehchan Patra
3. Original Discharge Book of Ex-servicemen
4. Domicile Certificate of Haryana
5. Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar Card
6. Applicant’s Photo ID Proof (Ration Card/Driving Licence/ Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
7. P.P.O
8. Aadhaar Card
9. Affidavit
10. Any other documents as required
