Financial Assistance to Orphan Children of Ex-Servicemen
Haryana
ESMEx-ServicemenFinancial AssistanceOrphanSainik
Details
The scheme "Financial Assistance to Orphan Children of Ex-Servicemen" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/‐ per month shall be granted to those Orphan Children of Ex-Servicemen (ESM) only who are bonafide resident of the Haryana State and are not in receipt of any kind of financial assistance from any Department of Haryana Government. The benefits under this scheme are given only to those orphan children of ex-servicemen who are below age 21 years, unmarried, and unemployed.

Benefits
1. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month is given to the orphan children of ex-servicemen, with an annual increase of ₹400/- w.e.f. 1.11.2017 every year in November.
Note: Subject to the condition that application claim case of the orphan children is found in order. Financial Assistance to the orphan children of Ex-servicemen will be sanctioned with effect from the first day of the following month in which their case for claiming the Financial Assistance is sanctioned. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be an orphan child of an ex-serviceman.
The applicant should not be receiving any kind of financial assistance from any department of the Haryana Government.
The applicant's age should be below 21 years.
The applicant should be unmarried.
The applicant should be unemployed.
Note 1: The definition of Ex-Servicemen for the purpose of the eligibility of grant of Financial Assistance to shall be effective as adopted by the Ministry of Defence Government of India from time to time.
Note 2: Details of orphan children of ESM along with their date of birth as issued by Unit Record Office of the Ex-servicemen will have to be submitted by the applicant while applying for Financial Assistance.
Note 3: The orphan children of ESM who are in receipt of ordinary family pension from Govt. of India are also eligible for financial assistance under this scheme.
Note 4: Old beneficiaries, (orphan children) whose cases for grant of Financial Assistance have already been sanctioned prior to issue of these guidelines shall continue to get the Financial Assistance at enhanced rates and they need not apply afresh.
Note 5: The payment shall be discontinued with immediate effect to the orphan children on their attaining the age of 21, or till he/she gets employment or till he/she gets married whichever is earlier.
Note 6: Payment of Financial Assistance to those beneficiaries shall be stopped immediately who fail to submit their survival verification proofs once every year from the revenue authorities in the month of April. Secretary, Zila Sainik Board shall be personally responsible for any lapse in this regards.
Note 7: If any beneficiary, after the date of sanction of the Financial Assistance under this scheme is found drawing any type of Financial Assistance from any other Deptt. of Haryana Govt. He/she shall be permanently debarred from getting Financial Assistance under all schemes run by the Rajya and Zila Sainik Boards in Haryana.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 5: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Note: All the applications received by the Zila Sainik Boards shall be scrutinized at the level of Zila Sainik Boards itself and applications so found fit for grant of Financial Assistance will be forwarded with all relevant documents to Rajya Sainik Board with clear recommendation of Secretary, Zila Sainik Board.
Documents Required
Copy of Ex-servicemen Identity-Card
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Aadhaar Card
Original Discharge Book of ESM
Haryana Resident Certificate
Revenue Report verified from Tehsildar
Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar Number
Death Certificate of the father and mother of the Orphan signed by the competent authority
Non-Employment Certificate (in case of major)
Delay report
Self-Photo ID card (Ration Card/Driving License/ Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
NOC from the concerned District Social Welfare Department regarding not receiving any financial assistance except ordinary family pension.
Legal Guardianship certificate given by the court in case of a minor
Birth Certificate of the applicant
Affidavit for verifying the particulars given by the Orphan/Guardian of the Orphan
Any other documents as required
Note 1: The applicants will have to produce a Domicile Certificate issued by the competent authority.
Note 2: In the case of minor orphan children the application and all other documents will be signed by the legal guardian declared by (competent court), but in the case of major children, the application and all other documents will be signed by the major orphan child himself/herself.
Note 3: In the case of minor orphan children the guardianship Certificate’ duly issued by the competent court will be submitted by the legal guardians along with the application.
Note 4: A school certificate Birth certificate issued by a competent authority showing the date of birth of the orphan child will have to be submitted by the applicant.
Note 5: Death certificate of father & mother birth certificate of the child must be signed by the competent authority in every case. Death Birth Certificates signed by the Sarpanch, Panch, or Chowkidar only shall not be accepted in any circumstances.
Note 6: The original Discharge Book issued by the concerned Record Office of the Ex-servicemen will have to be submitted by the applicant for scrutiny of the case which will be returned through the respective Zila Sainik Board after the scrutiny of the claim case.
Note 7: Every application for claiming Financial Assistance under this scheme shall be supported with an affidavit duly attested by a First Class Magistrate containing all necessary information in support of the application such as the relationship of the guardian with the child and his parents, financial position of the orphan children that he /she is unmarried and unemployed, etc.
Note 8: Every applicant shall have to produce a certificate issued by the concerned District Social Welfare Officer to the effect that the applicant is not getting any Financial Assistance/ old age pension from the Social Justice & Empowerment Department of Haryana.
