Garuda Scheme for Funeral Expense
Andhra Pradesh
BrahminDeceasedFinancial AssistanceSocial Welfare
Details
Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation (ABC), a Government of Andhra Pradesh undertaking, is announcing the "Garuda Scheme for Funeral Expenses" (GS- FE) for the poor Brahmins in Andhra Pradesh. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹10,000/- shall be provided to meet the Funeral Expenses of the deceased Brahmin, through the prescribed process. This scheme covers Andhra Pradesh all 13 districts, to meet the funeral expenses of the deceased Brahmi. 

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹10,000/- for funeral expenses.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a close relative of the deceased (Spouse/Son/Daughter/Parent/Brother/Grandson). 
The applicant should provide a self-declaration that he/she is the legal heir of the deceased.
The applicant should belong to the Brahmin community and reside in Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant's annual family income should not exceed ₹75,000/-.
The applicant should not have availed himself/ herself of any amount under any other government scheme for the same purpose.
Application Process
Online
Registration and apply
Step 01: Applicants have to visit the official website(https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/schemes/schemes.aspx#) and click on "Scheme"
Step 02: Click on "Registration" After that application form will open
Step 03: Fill out the required details:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-4: After submission receive the reference number. 

Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step 02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step 03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step 01: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip"
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme"
Step 03: Click on the "Submit"
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph of the Applicant
Aadhar Card of the Applicant
Aadhar Card of the Deceased
White Ration Card/Income Certificate (issued by Mee Seva/Revenue Department)
Caste Certificate (issued from Mee Seva) 
Residence Certificate (issued from Mee Seva) 
Birth Certificate (issued from Mee Seva) 
Income Certificate of the Applicant (issued by Mee Seva/Revenue Department)
Passbook of SB Account in Andhra Bank or SBI (in the name of Applicant)
Self-declaration (the applicant is the legal heir of the deceased Brahmin)
Death Certificate of Deceased Brahmin (issued by any Government)
