Jharkhand Krishi Rin Mafi Yojana
Jharkhand
AgricultureCrop LoanFarmerKisan Credit Card
Details
The "Jharkhand Krishi Rin Mafi Yojana" was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry & Cooperative, Government of Jharkhand on 7th January 2021, to provide relief from the debt burden to short-term agricultural loan holders in the state. Under this scheme, outstanding loan amounts of up to ₹50,000/- in standard crop loan outstanding accounts as of 31st March 2020, will be waived. Standard crop loan borrowers as of 31st March 2020, will be eligible to avail the benefits of this scheme.
The main objectives of the scheme are as follows:
To improve the loan eligibility of crop loan holders.
To ensure receipt of new crop loan.
To stop the migration of farming communities.
To strengthen the agricultural economy.
Salient features of the scheme:
Details of standard KCC loans covered under Aadhaar card and ration card are being uploaded by the bank on the loan waiver portal.
The scheme will be implemented online through the web portal. This will minimize contact between the applicant and officials.
Identification of correct beneficiaries using the Aadhaar number of the applicant and paperless application process.
Easy online application process.
The process of receiving applications through the Common Service Centre and Banks so as to provide scheme facilities to the applicants near their homes.
Redressal of grievances of applicants through online mode.

Benefits
Under this scheme, outstanding loan amounts of up to ₹50,000/- in standard crop loan outstanding accounts as of 31st March 2020, will be waived.
Note: Repayment of outstanding loan through DBT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Jharkhand.
The age of the farmer should be more than 18 years.
The applicant should be a farmer who self-cultivates their land or cultivates leased land.
The applicant should be a small or marginal farmer who has availed of the loan through the Kisan Credit Card.
The farmer should have a valid Aadhaar number.
The applicant should be a valid ration card holder.
The applicant should be a Kisan Credit Card holder.
The applicant should be a short-term crop loan holder.
The crop loan should be issued by a recognized bank located in Jharkhand.
The family of the deceased debtor is also eligible under the scheme.
The applicant should have a standard crop loan account.
Only one member per family holding a crop loan will be eligible.
This scheme will be voluntary for all crop loan holders.
Note: The applicant has to pay ₹1/- only for the application.
Eligibility for banks, criteria, determining outstanding loans and deadlines, eligible loan accounts, and exceptions:
Qualified Banks - Commercial Banks, Scheduled Co-operative Banks and Rural Banks
Qualifying Loan - Short-Term Crop Loan
Eligible period for disbursement - Upto 31.03.2020
Qualifying Loan Account - Single & Joint
Loans taken for crop diseases
Application Process
Online
Online - Via CSCs
Step 1: Visit the "Jharkhand Krishi Rin Mafi Yojana" official website to apply for scheme benefits.
Step 2: On the home page, click on 'Beneficiary Registration' and then enter your Aadhaar Number.
Step 3: Your basic information, such as name and loan amount, will be displayed upon entering your Aadhaar number.
Step 4: Enter your ration card number.
Step 5: Click on the name under which the loan is registered.
Step 6: Review all displayed information carefully and click "Submit".
Step 7: Authenticate your Aadhaar to verify your identity.
Step 8: Proceed to make the application fee payment.
Step 9: After successful payment, receive a confirmation slip for your application.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Proof of age
Ration card
Kisan Credit Card (KCC)
Bank account details/bank passbook
Other necessary documents if required
