Airavata Scheme
Karnataka

Details
This scheme envisages partnership with corporate aggregators like OLA and UBER to facilitate self-employment of rural youth through Radio Taxi and other successful cab transport ventures. Rural youth from SC/ST communities will be provided training, mentoring and other financial assistance to ensure secure and enhanced livelihoods. A subsidy of Rs. 5,00,000 will be offered to beneficiary to purchase a light motor vehicle through which not only will the beneficiary generate revenue but also it reduces the burden of EMI on the beneficiary.

Benefits
Beneficiary: Unemployed youth
 The beneficiaries will get up to rupees 5 lakh subsidy and financial help from the government side.
The Karnataka government will cover around 1000 SC/ST Taxi drivers and this Airavata scheme.When other state social welfare department dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar Development Corporation can work together with the government to provide the full benefit of the SC-ST community.
This will help people to become self-dependent and provide the opportunity of employment.
Due to covid-19 who have lost their jobs can now become an entrepreneur.
Karnataka Airavata Taxi scheme uh uh often the opportunity of self-employment for poor peoples.
The government will invest around 225 crore rupees in this Yojana.
The Madiga and its related community in Karnataka will be able to make their life more secure.
The beneficiaries will get a 50% subsidy on the scheme.
The remaining money should be arranged by the applicants.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should belong to the Scheduled caste community
2. The applicant should be a resident of Karnataka
3. The applicant should be above 21 years of age
4. The applicant must hold a valid driving license and a cab badge
5. The applicant’s family annual income should not exceed Rs. 5,00,000/-
6. Applicant will be considered ineligible if they/their family member has earlier availed a subsidy from the Corporation/Government of Karnataka exceeding Rs.1,00,000.
7. The selection of applicants will be based on merit and merit will be decided upon parameters such as Age, Education qualification, cab badge and years of driving experience
Application Process
Online
Step 1. First of all, visit the official website of the scheme.
Step 2. You will be redirected to the homepage.
Step 3. On the Homepage, the option Karnataka Airavata scheme registration form.
Step 4. After that, you will be redirected to the application form.
Step 5. Before going to fill in all the details on the application form.
Step 6. You need to sign in under the Airavata scheme.
Documents Required
Aadhar card
Bonafide certificate
PAN card
Rashan card
Passport size photograph
Driving License
Category certificate
Age proof certificate
Valid mobile number
