Bharati Scheme for Master’s Degree Overseas
Andhra Pradesh
AboradCourseFinancial AssistanceMaster DegreeStudent
Details
Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation (ABC), a Government of Andhra Pradesh undertaking, is introducing the “Bharati Scheme for Master’s Degree Overseas” (BS-MDO) for the year 2019-20, for the Brahmin students of Andhra Pradesh.  Under this scheme, a specified amount shall be released to the selected applicants, as one-time financial assistance. This scheme is applicable to students of Andhra Pradesh covering all 13 districts.

Benefits
Any course being pursued abroad with a duration of 11 to 18 months: ₹5,00,000/-.
Master’s Degree Programme being pursued abroad with a minimum of 18 months duration: ₹10,00,000/-.
Eligibility
The student and his/her parents should belong to the Brahmin community.  
The student's parents should reside in Andhra Pradesh. 
The annual income of parents/guardians should not exceed ₹6,00,000/-.
The student should have been admitted in any master's degree course overseas (at least 12 months duration) in a reputed institution, during the years 2019-20 Or should be pursuing the final year of the PEC course overseas, in collaboration with the Indian university/institute.  
The student who has already availed benefit earlier will not be eligible. 
The student should not have availed himself/ herself of any amount from any other government scheme for the same purpose. 
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-01: Applicants have to visit the official website and click on Scheme.
Step-02: Click on "Registration" under the concerned scheme name.
Step-03: Fill out the application form with required details like:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhaar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-04: Receive the reference number after the submission.

Check Application Status:
Step-01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step-02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step-03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step-01: Applicants have to visit the official website and click on Scheme.
Step-02: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip" under the concerned scheme.
Step-03: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme".
Step-04: Click on the "Submit".
Documents Required
Aadhaar Cards of the Student.
Caste Certificate of the Student.
Income certificate (issued by MeeSeva).
Senior Secondary Certificate and Qualifying Degree Certificate.
SB Account Passbook in Andhra Bank or State Bank of India (account must be in the name of applicant).
Passport-size Photograph (in jpeg format of maximum 50 kb).
Proof of Admission and Fees paid into any Master’s Degree Course Overseas in any reputed institution Or Proof of Collaboration Letter between the two universities/ institutes, in case of Final year PEC course abroad. 
Passport, VISA, Air Ticket, and Form –i20 or equivalent in one PDF.
