Swami Vivekananda Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme (Class 11th & 12th)
Madhya Pradesh
BPLPost-MatricScholarshipStudentSwami Vivekananda
Details
The scheme "Swami Vivekananda Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme" was launched by the School Education Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh, to motivate students from the lower economic backgrounds and support them economically. Under this scheme, scholarships are provided to students studying in Class 11 and Class 12 in government schools, whose annual family income is less than ₹1,00,000/- and who belong to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.

Benefits
Under this scheme, the girl student will get a scholarship of ₹550/- per year and boy student will get a scholarship of ₹500/- per year.
Note: The scholarship is sent directly to the student's bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant should be studying in Class 11 or Class 12.
The student should be enrolled in a government school.
Students studying in Class 11 must have passed their 10th board examination with a first division, and students studying in Class 12 must have passed their Class 11 examination with a first division to be eligible for this scholarship.
The applicant should belong to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
The applicant's parents' income from all sources should be less than ₹1,00,000/- per year.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits under this scheme, eligible students can contact the Principal of their respective government schools/institutions.
Note: The student's profile is entered on the education portal https://shikshaportal.mp.gov.in/ by the teacher of the educational institution as per the record/certificate provided by the student.
Documents Required
1. Passport-size Photo
2. Aadhaar card
3. Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
4. BPL category certificate/Ration card
5. Previous class marksheet
6. Income certificate
7. Samagra ID
8. Bank Passbook
9. Any other documents as required
