Financial Assistance To Gad-Hanjis
Jammu and Kashmir
Financial AssistanceFishermanSocial Welfare
Details
In the "Financial Assistance to Gad-Hanjis", financial assistance for the purchase of Nylon Twine is provided to the Licensed Fisherman (Gad-Hanjis) by the Social Welfare Department. The beneficiary shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu & Kashmir can apply for this scheme.

Benefits
The financial assistance for the purchase of Nylon Twine will be sanctioned at the following rates:
1. License holders having paid fee of ₹ 50/-: ₹ 500/-.
2. License holders having paid fee of ₹ 40/-: ₹ 400/-.
3. License holders having paid fee of ₹ 30/-: ₹ 300/-.
4. License holders having paid fee of ₹ 20/-: ₹ 200/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a Gad-Hanji (Fisherman) licensed by the Fisheries Department consecutively for the last 3 years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 3,600/-.
The applicant should not have received assistance under this scheme during the last 2 years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.

Post-Application Processes:
Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant, the DSWO shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The District Level Sanctioning Committee shall consider the cases and issue appropriate orders within one month to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 3: On the basis of approval of the Committee, the DSWO shall issue sanctions to the grant of financial assistance for onward disbursement among the sanctioned beneficiaries.
 
Check Application Status:
The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme.
Documents Required
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State/UT of Jammu & Kashmir
Fisherman License by the Fisheries Department, Govt. of Jammu & Kashmir
3 Passport-Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Aadhaar Card.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Income Certificate (in the prescribed form from a Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar or an affidavit attested by a Gazetted Officer / 1st Class Magistrate or a certificate from a Gazetted Officer of Central / State Government or a Member of the Parliament / State Legislature) indicating the monthly income of the family from all sources.
Proof of Age.
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
