Chanakya Swayam Upadhi Scheme for Micro Entrepreneurship - Transport Operator
Andhra Pradesh
BrahminEmploymentFinancial Assistance
Details
Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation (APBWC), a Government of Andhra Pradesh undertaking, is introducing the “Chanakya Swayam Upadhi Scheme for Micro Entrepreneurship - Transport Operator” a subsidy scheme for unemployed youth for purchasing Four- wheeler (self-Driven) for public transport purposes with the collaboration of AP Brahmin Co-operative Credit Society Ltd.,  Regd No. ABC-CS/006/2015, Vijayawada. 

Objective:
To provide subsidy for purchase of Four-wheelers to the unemployed Brahmin youth for their livelihood. This scheme is applicable for economically weak Brahmins of Andhra Pradesh, who want to settle as transport operators in Andhra Pradesh.

Benefits
Following are the subsidy/funding patterns:

S. No. Particulars Taxi (Swift Dezire Tour) in ₹ Petrol Dezire Tour S(O) CNG BS – VI in ₹ CNG & Petrol
1 Approximate Unit (Vehicle) Cost  ₹7,25,000/- ₹8,25,000/-
2 Corporation’s backend subsidy (25% of the vehicle cost) Not more than ₹2,00,000/- Not more than ₹2,00,000/-
3 Beneficiary Contribution (min. of 10% of the vehicle cost) ₹72,500/- ₹82,500/-
4 Loan from AP Brahmin Cooperative Credit Society repayable in monthly installments as per the ABC-CS guidelines) Initially ₹6,25,500/- will be provided as a term loan and a 25% subsidy will be released on clearing of ₹4,52,500/- loan amount together with the interest to the society.  Initially ₹7,42,500/- will be provided as a term loan and a 25% subsidy will be released on clearing of ₹5,42,500/- loan amount together with the interest to the society.
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to the Brahmin Community and reside in Andhra Pradesh only. 
The applicant should be a member of the AP Brahmin Welfare Cooperative Credit Society.   
The applicant should be aged between 21 to 50 years as of 01.04.2022. 
The applicant should have passed the 10th class. 
The present annual income of the applicant and his family from all sources should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-  
The applicant should not possess any three/four-wheeler in his/her name.  
The applicant should possess a valid permanent driving license as of the date of application. 
The applicant should have a valid badge No./valid proof of identity as driver proof as of the date of the application. 
The applicant should not have availed himself/herself of any financial assistance under other government schemes/programs for the same purpose. 
The applicant and his/ her family members who have availed financial assistance under Chanakya Swayam Upadhi Schemes earlier from AP Brahmin Welfare Corporation are not eligible under this scheme. 
Application Process
Online
Registration and apply
Step 01: Applicants have to visit the official website(https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/schemes/schemes.aspx#) and click on "Scheme"
Step 02: Click on "Registration" After that application form will open
Step 03: Fill out the required details:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-4: After submission receive the reference number. 

Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step 02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step 03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step 01: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip"
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme"
Step 03: Click on the "Submit"
Documents Required
Aadhar Card of the applicant. 
Caste Certificate of the applicant (issued by the competent authority or Mee-Seva)
Residence Certificate of the applicant (issued by the competent authority or Mee-Seva)
Income Certificate of the applicant (issued by the competent authority or Mee-Seva)
Birth Certificate of the applicant (issued by the competent authority or Mee-Seva)
Highest Educational Qualification Certificate
Driving license & Badge/Valid Proof of Identity as a driver (issued by the competent authority along with the PAN card (if available) of the applicant. 
Latest Passport-size Photograph of the applicant 
Ration Card/Rice Card
