Medical Expenses-Treatment for Major Ailments Including Surgery
West Bengal
AilmentsBuilding WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourMedical ExpensesSurgeryTreatment
Details
The "Medical Expenses-Treatment for Major Ailments Including Surgery'' scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, West Bengal, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide financial assistance as medical expenses for the treatment of beneficiary or his/ her dependents suffering from Cancer, Heart disease, Kidney disease, T.B., Eye disease, Leprosy and Nerve disease. For the operation of diseases in case of Heart, Kidney etc. the Board may sanction a higher amount.

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance: Upto a maximum amount of ₹20,000/- Per Annum.
Note: For the operation of diseases like Heart, Kidney etc. the Board may sanction a maximum amount of ₹60,000/-.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of West Bengal.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of West Bengal.
The member or his/ her dependents should suffer from Cancer/ Heart disease/ Kidney disease/ T.B./ Eye disease/ Leprosy/ Nerve disease.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: To register as a beneficiary under the BOCW Welfare Board, an applicant worker should request Form-27 from the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers and should attach all the mandatory documents (self-attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: A registered worker should request Form-XI for the application from the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers and should attach all the mandatory documents (self-attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers for this benefit.
Helpdesk:
Labour Department
Department of Labour, Government of West Bengal,
12th Floor, N.S Building, Block-A,
1, Kiran Shankar Roy Road,
Kolkata-700001
Helpline of Labour Department, Govt. of West Bengal (Shramik Sathi): 1800-103-0009
Note:
Upon successful verification,  the construction worker is registered and an identity card and passbook are issued to him/ her. ₹20/- as the registration fee and ₹30/- as yearly subscription is taken. The amounts taken are noted in the passbook and a receipt is issued.
After one year, the beneficiary's subscription is renewed upon payment of a renewal fee of ₹30/- and submission of an application in Form-27A.
If not renewed the registration of the beneficiary is cancelled after the expiry of one year. Fresh application for renewal to be submitted to the ALC for consideration.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Passport size photographs of the worker (Four copies).
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Identity Card of the member.
Dependent/ Heirship Certificate (In case the applicant is spouse/ nominee of the beneficiary).
Medical Certificate.
Copy of bills.
Any other document if required.
