Khule Jalsroto Mei Pen Aadharit Matsya Paalan ki Yojana
Bihar
Financial AssistanceFish FarmingGroupProductivity
Details
The "Khule Jalsroto Mei Pen Aadharit Matsya Paalan ki Yojana" was launched by the Animal and Fisheries Resources Department, Government of Bihar. The scheme aims to increase fish productivity and production through semi-intensive/intensive fisheries of large-scale available government wetland water sources (Man, Chaur, and Lake, etc.), and strengthen aquaculture through species diversification. It seeks to increase the income of farmers/fishermen and provide new employment opportunities.

Benefits
A 75% subsidy is provided on the fixed unit expenditure of ₹10,50,000/- per pen unit. 
Eligibility
Groups formed from lessees of the committee in Man, Chaur, and Lake are eligible to apply.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply". 
Step-02: Select the "Registration for Fisheries Schemes"
Step-03: Select the category: Individual and complete all basic details of the applicant for registration, including category, caste, applicant name, date of birth, address, bank details, etc.
Step-04: Enter a valid 10-digit mobile number and click to send OTP.
Step-05: An OTP will be sent to the provided mobile number.
Step-06: Enter the OTP; after verification of the OTP, you will receive a Registration Number and Password.
Step-07: Click on the "Login" and enter the Registration Number and Password.

Application Form Filling Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply".
Step-02: Click "If your already register, login here". 
Step-03: Select "Application form" under the "scheme name" option on the top menu.
Step-04: Applicant need to provide the following details :
Details of RFF group
Permanent address
Details of members of Fishermen Cooperative Society and group
Bank account details
Land details
Financial availability of the scheme
Step-05: Upload the required documents
Training Certificate
Land Lease Receipt
PAN/RFF Group Statement
Photocopy of Photo ID (Aadhaar/Photo ID Card recognized by Govt. of India)
Original copy of Consent Letter (in prescribed format)
Self attested photocopy of Bank Passbook or Cheque (with Bank Name, Branch Name, Account No., IFSC Code)
Step-06: Click on the submit button and a receipt will be generated.
Documents Required
Applicant's Photograph (self-signed).
Training Certificate.
Land Lease Receipt.
Pen/ RFF Group Return.
Photocopy of Photo Identity Card (Aadhaar/India Government recognized Photo Identity Card).
Original copy of Consent Letter (in prescribed form).
Self-attested Photocopy of Bank Passbook or Cheque (including bank name, branch name, account number, IFSC code).
