Refund of Subscriptions for the Construction Workers
West Bengal
Construction WorkerLabourSubscriptions Refund
Details
The “Refund of Subscriptions for the Construction Workers” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, West Bengal, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the entire subscription deposited by the beneficiary will be refunded with 8% interest to the subscriber on maturity at the age of 60 years or unwillingness to continue as a beneficiary under the Board after 3 years or to the nominee (legal heir) upon the death of the subscriber.

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance: Subscription deposited by the beneficiary will be refunded with 8% interest to the subscriber.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of West Bengal.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of West Bengal.
The applicant should reach the age of maturity i.e. 60 years.
Or,
The applicant do not want to continue as a subscriber under the Board after 3 years of registration.
Or,
The subscriber has lost his/her life due to death. (Applicant should be nominee (legal heir) of the subscriber.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: To register as a beneficiary under the BOCW Welfare Board, an applicant worker should request Form-27 from the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers and should attach all the mandatory documents (self-attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: A registered worker should request the application from the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers and should attach all the mandatory documents (self-attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Assistant Labour Commissioners/ Beneficiary Registering Officers for this benefit.
Helpdesk:
Labour Department
Department of Labour, Government of West Bengal,
12th Floor, N.S Building, Block-A,
1, Kiran Shankar Roy Road,
Kolkata-700001
Helpline of Labour Department, Govt. of West Bengal (Shramik Sathi): 1800-103-0009
Note:
Upon successful verification,  the construction worker is registered and an identity card and passbook are issued to him/ her. ₹20/- as the registration fee and ₹30/- as yearly subscription is taken. The amounts taken are noted in the passbook and a receipt is issued.
After one year, the beneficiary's subscription is renewed upon payment of a renewal fee of ₹30/- and submission of an application in Form-27A.
If not renewed the registration of the beneficiary is cancelled after the expiry of one year. Fresh application for renewal to be submitted to the ALC for consideration.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Passport size photographs of the worker (Four copies).
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Identity Card of the member.
Dependent/ Nominee/ Heirship Certificate and Death Certificate of the subscriber (In case the applicant is the Nominee of the member).
Any other document if required.
