Dr. Ambedkar Medhavi Chattar Sansodhit Yojna
Haryana
EducationFinancial Assistance,Parity Among StudentsSocial WelfareThe Scheme Of Masses
Details
The Haryana government has prepared a scheme to provide scholarship to the meritorious students of Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes, Nomadic, DNTs, Semi-Nomadic, Vimukt Jaati and Tapriwas Jaati of classes 11th to postgraduate level. It aims to produce a feeling of competition amongst them so that they can achieve great milestones in the field of education. Both online and offline applications are invited under this scheme.
Under this scheme an incentive from 8000 to 12000 per annum is provided to the meritorious students of classes from class 11th to post graduate level. Student may submit their online application on website i.e https://saralharyana.gov.in/. 

Benefits
For Students of Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes, Nomadic, DNTs, Semi-Nomadic, Vimukt Jati, and Tapriwas Jaati, scholarship ranging from Rs. 8000/- to 12000/- is awarded for Metric/10th,10+ and Graduation.
For Students of Backward Classes Block ‘A’, scholarship of amount Rs 8000 is awarded for metric qualified students.
For Students of Backward Classes Block ‘B’, scholarship of amount Rs 8000 is awarded for metric qualified students.
For Meritorious students of other social classes to be given scholarship at par with Students of Backward Classes Block ‘B’, scholarship of amount Rs 8000 is awarded for metric qualified students.
Eligibility
For Students of Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes, Nomadic, DNTs, Semi-Nomadic, Vimukt Jati, and Tapriwas Jaati - matric-(Urban 70%) (Rural 60%).,10+2-(Urban 75%) (Rural 70%) , Graduation-Urban 65%) (Rural 60%)
For Students of Backward Classes Block ‘A’ -Metric-(Urban 70%) (Rural 60%)
For Students of Backward Classes Block ‘B’- Metric-(Urban 80%) (Rural 75%)
For Meritorious students of other social classes to be given scholarship at par with Students of Backward Classes Block ‘B’ - Metric-(Urban 80%) (Rural 75%)
Application Process
Online
Offline
Visit the official website http://haryanascbc.gov.in/ and read the guidelines related to the scheme.
To fill the application form Visit saral Haryana website on https://saralharyana.gov.in/ and click on register here and a registration form will open and fill in the requisite details and submit.
Enter the ID and password obtained after registration and log in.
Now click on Dr Ambedkar Medhavi Chattar Sansodhit Yojna on the page opened after logging in and click on the Apply Online Option.
Fill the application form and upload all the documents.
Documents Required
Income Certificate
Caste Certificate
Academic Marksheet of the qualifying exam
Photograph of the Applicant
Bank Details
Attested Copy of Aadhar Card
