Hostel Facility for Students Availing Education in Delhi
Madhya Pradesh
DelhiHigher EducationHostel FacilityScheduled CasteScholarshipStudent
Details
The "Hostel Facility for Students Availing Education in Delhi" was launched by the Scheduled Caste Welfare Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to provide facilities for residential and other facilities such as water, reimbursement of electricity expenditure, scholarship, etc. for scheduled caste students of Madhya Pradesh studying in higher institutions located in Delhi. Hostel facility will be limited only to scheduled castes and students of Madhya Pradesh studying in Delhi metropolis. This facility will be made available in hostels of various universities/colleges located in Delhi.

Benefits
Financial assistance is available for students from Madhya Pradesh who are pursuing higher education at institutions (universities and colleges) in Delhi. The assistance covers the following:
Monthly rent: ₹1,000/- per month
Scholarship: ₹500/- per month
Water and electricity expenses: ₹100/- per month
One-time grant (at the time of admission): ₹2,000/-
Note: Payments are made into the bank accounts of the applicants.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant should be a regular student currently enrolled in or admitted to an undergraduate (first year) or higher class, or professional course at a government or recognized institution located in Delhi.
The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
Application Process
Offline
After taking admission in higher education institutions located in Delhi, application has to be submitted to the Residential Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh Bhawan, New Delhi.
The eligible students must submit the application in the prescribed Form-A through the concerned institution to the Special Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh.
Appeal: Residential Commissioner Madhya Pradesh Bhawan, New Delhi and Principal Secretary, Madhya Pradesh Government, Scheduled Caste Welfare Department, Bhopal 
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Aadhaar card
Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
Caste certificate 
UG/PG degree with minimum 60% marks 
Samagra ID
Previous class passing marksheet
Bank account details/Bank Passbook
Other necessary documents if required
