Pathari Kshetr Talab Nirman Aadharit Matsya Paalan ki Yojana
Bihar
Financial AssistanceFish FarmerOpportunitiesPonds
Details
The "Pathari Kshetr Talab Nirman Aadharit Matsya Paalan ki Yojana" was launched by the Animal and Fisheries Resources Department, Government of Bihar. The scheme aims to promote fisheries by constructing ponds and setting up related supporting units in plateau-dominated districts. The initiative is designed to create new employment opportunities and provide a means of livelihood for farmers.

Benefits
Maximum Subsidy per Beneficiary: 80% of ₹16.70 lakh per acre.
Subsidy Installments: 60% after pond construction, 40% after installation of related units and purchase of inputs.
Eligibility
The applicant must own or lease land in the identified plateau-dominated districts. 
A person/family should construct a pond of a maximum of one acre and a minimum 0.4-acre water area i.e. 0.5-acre area.
The applicant should install a concrete board on the pond. 
The board should be made of an iron sheet of size 4 feet x 3 feet, standing four feet at an iron angle, on which the description will be written with paint.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply". 
Step-02: Select the "Registration for Fisheries Schemes"
Step-03: Select the category: Individual and complete all basic details of the applicant for registration, including category, caste, applicant name, date of birth, address, bank details, etc.
Step-04: Enter a valid 10-digit mobile number and click to send OTP.
Step-05: An OTP will be sent to the provided mobile number.
Step-06: Enter the OTP; after verification of the OTP, you will receive a Registration Number and Password.
Step-07: Click on the "Login" and enter the Registration Number and Password.

Application Form Filling Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply".
Step-02: Click "If your already register, login here". 
Step-03: Select "Scheme name" under the "Matsya Yojana" option on the top menu.
Step-04: Applicant need to provide the following details :
Details of individual (applicant/group leader)
Permanent address
Bank account details
Land/pond details
Step-05: Upload the required documents.
Step-06: Click on the submit button as well print the application form and submit it to the District Fisheries Office along with attachments. 

Note: Download the Affidavit form and Consent form also attached with the application. 
Documents Required
Photograph of the Proposed Land
Mobile Number, 
Bank Branch Name, Account Number, IFSC code
Attested Copies of Aadhar Card/Ration Card/Voter ID Card
Land Map
Caste Certificate
Land Ownership Certificate/Updated Revenue Receipt or Lease Agreement
Notarized Affidavit for land dispute-free status
Affidavit and Consent Form
