Mukhyamantri Samekit Chaur Vikas Yojana
Bihar
EmploymentFarmersFinancial AssistanceFish Production
Details
The "Mukhyamantri Samekit Chaur Vikas Yojana" was launched by the Animal and Fisheries Resources Department, Government of Bihar. under Seven Nishchay-2, aims to develop undeveloped and unutilized private land in Bihar for fish-based integrated aquaculture. With a budget of ₹2972.79 lakh, the scheme targets the sustainable development of 600 hectares of Chaur land

Objective:
Utilization of unutilized private land for fish farming.
Increase in fish production and productivity.
Groundwater level improvement, supporting the "Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali" campaign.
Additional employment opportunities for farmers.
Strengthening of the local economy.

Benefits
Beneficiary-based subsidy:
50% for other categories.
70% for Most Backward Castes, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes.
40% Entrepreneur-based subsidy.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an individual, family, group beneficiary, or entrepreneur.
The applicant should be a private landowner or lessee in Chaur-dominated districts. 
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply". 
Step-02: Select the "Registration for Fisheries Schemes"
Step-03: Select the category: Individual and complete all basic details of the applicant for registration, including category, caste, applicant name, date of birth, address, bank details, etc.
Step-04: Enter a valid 10-digit mobile number and click to send OTP.
Step-05: An OTP will be sent to the provided mobile number.
Step-06: Enter the OTP; after verification of the OTP, you will receive a Registration Number and Password.
Step-07: Click on the "Login" and enter the Registration Number and Password

Application Form Filling Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply".
Step-02: Click "If your already register, login here". 
Step-03: Select "Application form" under the "scheme name" option on the top menu.
Step-04: Applicant need to provide the following details :
Personal details.
Permanent address.
Bank account details.
Land details.
Financial availability of the scheme.
Agriculture, horticulture and agroforestry components
Step-05: Upload the required documents
Passport size photographs.
Aadhaar card.
Land ownership certificate/revenue receipt or lease agreement, etc.
Step-06: Click on the submit button and a receipt will be generated.
Documents Required
Passport size photographs
Aadhaar card
Caste certificate 
Land ownership certificate/revenue receipt or lease agreement
Consent letter for group work
Registration certificate (for entrepreneurs)
Audit and income tax returns (for entrepreneurs)
Bank consent letter
