Kalyani Sahayata Yojana (Madhya Pradesh Labor Welfare Board)
Madhya Pradesh
Deceased WorkerFinancial AssistanceOrganized SectorWidow
Details
The "Kalyani Sahayata Yojana" is implemented by the Labour Welfare Board under the Labour Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh, aims to provide financial assistance to the widows of organized sector workers. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹6,000/- every six months (totaling ₹12,000/- per year) will be provided to the wife of a deceased worker employed in an industrial unit or establishment in Madhya Pradesh. The application must be submitted within one year of the worker's death. Assistance continues annually upon submission of an affidavit confirming the widow is alive and has not remarried. 

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible widows of deceased workers receive financial assistance of ₹6,000/- every six months, in June and December. This amounts to a total of ₹12,000/- per year.
Time limit: The assistance amount will be paid to the concerned within 30 days of receipt of the application in the designated office for one year from the date of death of worker.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant should be the widow of the deceased worker.
The deceased worker should have been employed in an industrial institution or establishment covered by the Madhya Pradesh Labor Welfare Fund Act, 1982, for at least one year prior to his death.
The deceased worker should have been registered with the Madhya Pradesh Labour Welfare Board.
The widow should not have remarried.
The widow should not be receiving financial assistance from any other government department.
Note: The Board must have received regular contributions from the industrial institution or establishment for the deceased worker, in accordance with the rules.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits of this scheme, applicants should visit the nearest 'Lok Seva Kendra' with all relevant documents and apply for the scheme benefits.
Application forms can be obtained from the regional offices and labour welfare centers of the board, where they can also be filled out and submitted.
Note 1: The application form in the prescribed format is also available on the official website of the Madhya Pradesh Labour Welfare Board.
Note 2: When applying, it is necessary to provide the applicant's mobile number and e-mail ID.
Note 3: Upon submission of the application form, an acknowledgment receipt will be provided to the applicant.
Note 4: Information regarding the acceptance or rejection of the application will be sent via SMS to the mobile number provided by the applicant.
Approving Officer:
Regional officers of the Board who are Public Relation Officer, Contribution Recovery Officer, Welfare Officer, Welfare Supervisor, and Welfare Inspector are appointed designated officers in this scheme.
Application Fee/Charge:
No administrative fee is payable to the Board for availing this service. On submitting the application through the Public Service Center, the application fee prescribed by the e-Governance/ Lok Seva Kendra will have to be deposited.
Appeal: In case of disagreement with the rejection of the application or if the application is not resolved within the time limit, an appeal can be made as follows: -
First Appeal- The first appeal against the order of the Designated Officer will be to the Assistant Welfare Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh Labour Welfare Board, who will resolve the appeal within a maximum of 30 working days.
Second appeal– The second appeal against the order of the first appellate officer will be presented to the Welfare Commissioner, Madhya Pradesh Labour Welfare Board.
Note: The applicant will be able to appeal online in the above situations.
Documents Required
1. Passport-size photograph
2. Aadhaar card
3. Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
4. Death Certificate of the deceased worker 
5. Bank Passbook/bank account details
6. Certificate (Affidavit) of Kalyani (Widow) is not remarried
7. Certification of application from institute/establishment
8. Any other documents as required
Note: Every year, it is necessary for the widow (Kalyani) to submit a certificate that she is alive and has not remarried.
