Natural Death Relief - Telangana
Telangana
Construction WorkerFinancial AssistanceNatural Death
Details
The "Natural Death Relief - TBOCWWB" scheme was launched by the Telangana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, LET&F (Labour) Department Telangana. The scheme aims to provide relief amount to the nominee, dependents, or legal heirs of a deceased worker ₹1,00,000/- in case of natural death. The scheme is effective from 01.05.2018 and aims to support the families of deceased workers with financial assistance to help cover funeral expenses and provide additional relief.

Benefits
The relief amount ₹1,00,000/- provided to the nominee, dependants, or legal heirs. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be the nominee, dependent, or legal heir of the deceased construction worker.
The deceased should be a registered building and other construction workers with the Telangana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The death of the deceased worker must be due to natural death. 
Application Process
Offline
Step-1: The interested applicant visits the official website and clicks on "Downloads" at the top of menu options.
Step-2: Now click on the download button corresponding to the scheme name.
Step-3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step-4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned officer in the labour department. 
Step-5: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Registration Card under the BOCW Act (Attested copy).
Household Ration Card / Aadhaar Card (issued by the competent authority as proof of the nominee/dependant declared by the worker in his registration).
Renewal Challan Copy.
Death Certificate.
Advance Stamped Receipt.
1st page of Bank Passbook (Attested copy).
