National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) Internship Programme
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
AIDSHealthInternshipNACOStudent
Details
NACO initiated the Internship Programme in 2018 for young students who wish to engage with the Government. The internship programme envisages an opportunity for young students to get familiar with and understand the various dimensions of policy-making & implementation of the National AIDS Control Programme. It will serve as an exposure for the interns regarding the functioning of the Government of India. It will be mutually beneficial for the organization as well as students to have a structured internship programme under the aegis of NACO, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The internship programme would provide an excellent opportunity for budding scholars to familiarise themselves with the process of formulation of health policy and its implementation by the Government of India, with specific reference to the National HIV/AIDS and STD Control Programme.

The internship is offered on varied priority areas such as secondary data analysis of ICTC and PPTCT programme, MSM interventions, EID programme, primary research and data analysis on community perceptions of the HIV/AIDS Act, 2017 and Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2018. The list of programmatic courses applicable for the internship at NACO is placed at Annexure II.

Number of Interns
The number of interns can vary depending on the applications and requirements of NACO. However, at any point in time, the number of interns shall not be more than 10.

Enrolment
Enrollment for internships shall be kept open throughout the year and offered based on the requirement of the different Programmes.

Duration
The internship would be for a minimum duration of 6 weeks and max. duration of 3 months, as per the prerequisites of the study programme.
There shall be no bar for candidates to apply for a second internship with NACO. 

Placement
The Interns will be placed in selected programme divisions within NACO or rotated through different divisions based on the prerequisites of the study programme.
NOTE: The internship programme is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the National AIDS Control Organisation or any other Ministry/ Department in the Government of India.

Reporting
Interns shall be expected to report to NACO, submit their joining report and work under close supervision of the concerned Head of Division (HOD). The areas available for internship at NACO are listed at Annexure III of the Scheme Guidelines.

Duties & Responsibilities
The interns are expected to follow the standard schedule of activities, observe the functioning of the divisions, participate in activities, conduct data analysis & research, write reports, undertake field visits, and any other task assigned/entrusted to them by the HOD / Reporting Officer.

Benefits
Remuneration
Interns will be entitled to a stipend at the rate of ₹ 8,000 per month payable on successful completion of the Internship and submission and acceptance of their Internship reports by the Reporting Officer, and satisfactory performance certified by the HoD. 
NOTE: Students who discontinue the internship would not be paid any remuneration by NACO.

Certificate
Certificates will be issued on satisfactory completion of their internships and on submission and acceptance of the Reports. 
NOTE: Students who discontinue the internship would not be awarded any certificate by NACO.

Boarding & Lodging
No other expenses like travel costs etc. will be admissible and no claims would be entertained.

Stay/Accommodation
Interns coming from outside Delhi / New Delhi have to make their own arrangements for stay/ accommodation at their own expense.

Logistic Support
Interns will be provided with the necessary office logistics supports i.e. work space, stationery and facility for photocopying. 
NOTE: Interns will need to have their own laptop computers and internet connectivity.
Eligibility
The scheme is open to students pursuing undergraduate, postgraduate, M.Phil and PhD courses in various disciplines e.g. Preventive & Social Medicine, Public Health, Health Management, Statistics, Social Sciences etc (the list is only illustrative and not exhaustive) pursuing graduation or post-graduation courses from a recognized and reputed University, who may apply for the internship programme. 

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Preference will be given to applicants having an excellent academic track record and to research scholars, and candidates bringing project work relevant to NACO’s activities or concomitant with NACP.
Application Process
Offline
At NACO Headquarters, the applications in the prescribed format (Annexure-IV of the Scheme Guidelines) may be sent to the office of the Joint Secretary by registered/speed post or email communication, at the following address:
Deputy Secretary
National AIDS Control Organisation 
9th Floor, Chandralok Building,
36, Janpath, New Delhi – 110001
Email: naco.internship@gmail.com

NOTE 1: An advance copy of the application along with the Covering Letter and attachments may be sent by e-mail to naco.internship@gmail.com. 
NOTE 1: The applications should reach at least one month before the commencement of the internship.

Selection Process
Step 1: All applications will be scrutinized by an Internship Committee.
Step 2: The Internship Committee may conduct a personal interaction/ interview either through face-to-face interview or electronic media (phone, skype, etc.) with the applicant.
Step 3: An intimation by email/ speed post will be sent to the selected candidates. 

Queries/Grievances
Query, if any, may be addressed to Under Secretary at usadmin.dac@gmail.com.
Documents Required
At the Time of Applying - 
Write up not exceeding 500 words on how the student’s academic pursuit, as well as the National AIDS Control Programme, will benefit from this Internship. 
Copy of at least three documentary proofs of identity which should include a copy of passport and Aadhar card/Voter ID/PAN Card in case of Indian nationals and passport, OCI card and National Identity Card in case of OCI card holders.
Curriculum Vitae.
Introduction Letter from the Head of the Institution on the official stationery where the applicant has studied/is studying.
No objection certificate from University/Institution in case the internship is to be pursued in parallel with an ongoing course. The prescribed format is placed in Annexure IV of the Scheme Guidelines.
Self-attested certificates and transcripts for all the accomplishments mentioned in the Application Form (educational qualifications, current courses being pursued and projects).

At the Time of Joining - 
Photograph.
Photo Identity (Voter ID/ PAN/ Adhaar/ Passport).
Approval Letter from the Dean/ Principal of the College/ University.
(for students from abroad) Travel documents.
(for students from abroad) Approval Letter from the Institute.

At the Completion of the Internship - 
A report on the area of internship/study.
