Tirth Barat Yojana
Chhattisgarh
BPLPilgrimPilgrimagePwDSenior CitizenTirth Yatra
Details
The "Tirth Barat Yojana" was launched by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh on 4th December 2012. The objective of this scheme is to provide government assistance for pilgrimage to the senior citizens (60 years & above) and Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), who are residents of Chhattisgarh, to visit one or more of the various designated pilgrimage sites outside the state, once in their lifetime.
Under this scheme, 80% of the beneficiaries will be from the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category, including cardholders of the Antyodaya and Chief Minister Food Grain Schemes. The remaining 20% will be senior citizens and disabled individuals above the poverty line who are not income taxpayers.
Of the total beneficiaries, 25% will be from urban areas, while 75% will be from rural areas.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the state government provides an opportunity for senior citizens (60 years and above) and Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) to visit one or more designated pilgrimage sites outside the state.
This assistance is available once in their lifetime.
List of Pilgrimage Sites:
Ujjain, Omkareshwar
Puri, Bhubaneswar
Haridwar, Rishikesh
Mathura, Vrindavan
Prayag, Kashi
Shirdi, Shani Shingnapur, Trimbakeshwar
Vaishno Devi, Jammu
Amritsar, Golden Temple
Tirupati, Madurai, Rameshwaram
Ajmer Sharif, Fatehpur (Dargah of Chishti)
Baba Baidyanath Dham
Dakshineswar, Kalighat, Gangasagar
Dwarka, Somnath, Nageshwar
Sammed Shikharji
Shravanabelagola
Velankanni Church, Nagapattinam (Tamil Nadu)
Gaya, Bodh Gaya, Sarnath, Nalanda
Kamakhya Temple, Navagraha Temple, Vashishtha Muni Ashram, Umananda Temple, Shivaji Temple, Shankar Dev Kala Kshetra-Guwahati
Sabari Mala, Guruvayur, Ettumanoor Temple
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The applicant should be either a senior citizen or a person with disabilities (including visual impairment, deaf-mute, hearing impairment, or locomotor disabilities).
Senior citizens should be 60 years of age or older.
Persons with disabilities must be 18 years of age or older.
The applicant should not have previously traveled under this scheme.
The applicant should not be an income taxpayer.
The applicant should be physically and mentally able to travel.
The applicant should not be suffering from any infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, congestive cardiac or respiratory obstruction-related diseases, coronary insufficiency, coronary thrombosis, mental illness, leprosy, etc.
Groups of Pilgrims:
The journey will be conducted only in groups. The above groups will be determined by the government or the authority/agency authorized by the government. The journey to any pilgrimage place will be started only when the minimum number of passengers determined by the government is available. Mere selection under the scheme will not oblige the government to arrange a journey for any person.
Restrictions on other persons traveling:
Only the person selected to travel under this scheme is permitted to go on the journey. They should not bring any additional person with them, even if that person is willing to cover the journey expenses. Only the selected individuals are allowed to travel in trains and vehicles, and each seat/berth will be occupied by only one person.
Regarding additional expenses:
If anyone, during the journey, wants to avail of facilities in addition to the norms/facilities prescribed by the government, then he/she will have to pay for the same himself/herself.
Expectations from the pilgrims during the trip:
Pilgrims will not be able to carry any inflammable substance or intoxicating substance in any form.
Pilgrims will not be able to take jewelry etc. with them.
The pilgrims will behave as per the dignity of the pilgrimage so that the image of the state is not otherwise affected.
Pilgrims will follow the instructions of their designated contact officer.
Application Process
Offline
The concerned beneficiaries will submit their application forms in the prescribed format to Gram Panchayat/District Panchayat/Deputy Director, Panchayat and Social Welfare of their respective District. 
Note 1: The selection of beneficiaries from the received applications will be done through a lottery system conducted by the Collector.
Note 2: If the name of any of the disabled applicant's spouse is selected, then his/her life partner will also be able to go on the journey, at the time of applying, the applicant will have to attach the application of the life partner along with the applicant's application.
Note 3: Five or more disabled people will also be able to apply as a group. The entire group will be considered as one application and will be included in the lottery. It will be mandatory for every disabled pilgrim to be accompanied by an assistant on the pilgrimage. The assistant should be close to the disabled person or someone of his choice.
Note 4: A person above 65 years of age, who has applied to travel alone, will be eligible to take one assistant with him on the journey. On application by a group of persons, a group of 3 to 5 persons will be eligible to take 1 assistant along with the said group, provided that every person in this group is above 65 years of age. In large groups, assistants will be recognized at the rate of 1 per 05 passengers. There will be no facility to take an assistant if the spouse is traveling together, provided one of them is below 65 years of age. This will not be applicable in the case of persons with disabilities.
Note 5: If the name of any of the applicant's spouse is selected, his/her life partner will also be able to accompany him on the journey. Even if the age of the applicant's life partner is less than 60 years, he/she will be able to travel with the applicant. While applying, the applicant will have to mention that his/her life partner is also willing to travel with him/her. In such a situation, the application of the said life partner will also have to be attached with the applicant's application. If there is eligibility to take an assistant along with him on the journey, then the application of that assistant will also be submitted along with the applicant. This will not be applicable in case of persons with disabilities.
Note 6: If a group of individuals apply together, the entire group will be considered as one application and included in the lottery. The said group can be of a maximum of 25 applicants. One applicant of the group will be called the head of the group. Applications of all other applicants will be submitted attached with his/her application. If the persons included in the said group are eligible to take helpers, then the applications of the proposed helpers will also be attached with this application. The number of people included in the group, including assistants, will not exceed 25. This will not be applicable in case of persons with disabilities.
Note 7: The envelope in which the application form is to be sent should be prescribed as “Application for a visit to the place under Mukhyamantri Teerth Yatra Yojana Year -----, the year in which the pilgrimage place is being applied for. That should be mentioned.
Note 8: The applicant will also have to mention the names and other particulars of any two nominees with whom they can be contacted immediately in case of any emergency, in the prescribed space in the application form. It will be necessary to provide the mobile number of at least one of your nominees.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof 
Domicile of Chhattisgarh
Proof of Age 
Residence proof (Ration card/Driving license/Electricity bill/Voter identity card/Any other government-authorized documents)
Income proof
Any other document required
BPL Card or related documents (if applicable)
Any other documents as required
