Disabled Wedding Incentive Scheme
Madhya Pradesh
Financial AssistanceMarriagePwDWedding
Details
The "Disabled Wedding Incentive Scheme" was launched by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh on 1st April, 2005. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance for marriage with a view to social rehabilitation of persons with disabilities who do not fall under the category of income tax payers.

Benefits
This scheme provides a lump-sum financial assistance of ₹50,000/- if either the bride or groom has a disability. If both individuals are disabled, the assistance amount is ₹1,00,000/-.
Note 1: The incentive amount will be jointly payable to the eligible couple.
Note 2: If the marriage is dissolved without a valid reason within five years of the wedding date, the entire incentive amount will be recovered as land revenue.
Note 3: Incentive amount will be given only once in a lifetime.
Eligibility
At least one individual in the disabled couple should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The disability of either one or both partners in the couple should be 40% or more, as defined in Section 2 of the Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995.
At the time of marriage, the bridegroom should be between 21 and 45 years old, and the bride must be between 18 and 45 years old.
For the disabled couple, it should be the bridegroom's first marriage.
The marriage should be conducted according to prevailing social customs or legally solemnized by a competent court.
Neither partner in the couple should be an income taxpayer.
Application Process
Offline
Applicants must submit their application with a joint signature/thumb impression in the prescribed format to the Joint/Deputy Director of the Social Welfare Department in their respective district.
Note: Application for incentive amount will be accepted if submitted within a maximum of 6 months of marriage.
Selection Process:
After a necessary review of the applications received from the applicants by the Joint Director/Deputy Director, Social Welfare District Office, the applications of all eligible couples along with all the certificates will be presented to the District Collector for approval along with recommendations.
The District Collector sanctions the assistance amount based on the recommendation of the Joint/Deputy Director of the Social Welfare Department, Chhattisgarh.
Note 1: The Joint Director/Deputy Director of the Social Welfare District Office has the authority to approve or reject the applications received. However, if any application is rejected, the Joint Director/Deputy Director must provide appropriate reasons for the rejection.
Note 2: The approving authority must make a decision on the registered application and inform the applicant within a maximum of 30 days from the date of receipt in the office. The applicant will be notified of the decision, whether it is an acceptance or rejection.
Note 3: Upon approval, the amount will be disbursed to the concerned beneficiary directly through NEFT/RTGS, whenever possible.
Documents Required
Latest photograph of the married couple (A colour photograph of the couple taken jointly in the marriage ceremony)
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar card
Domicile certificate of Chhattisgarh
Proof of age
Disability certificate
Marriage certificate (Document certified by MP/MLA/President or member District Panchayat/ Chairman or member Janpad Panchayat/ Sarpanch/ Gazetted Officer/ Chairman/ Councillor)
For the bridegroom, an affidavit signed on a ₹10/- stamp paper (judicial) regarding his first marriage.
Couple will have to jointly submit an affidavit signed on a stamp paper (judicial) of ₹50/- in the prescribed form in Appendix 2.
Bank passbook or bank account details
Any other documents as required
