Reimbursement of Expenditure for Occupational Diseases (P.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Punjab
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerHealthLabourOccupational DiseasesOperation
Details
The "Reimbursement of Expenditure for Occupational Diseases'' by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Punjab, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this Scheme the Board shall provide reimbursement of maximum ₹1,00,000/- or actual expenditure, which-ever is less for expenditure of treatment of the following dangerous diseases:
1. Occupational dermatitis.
2. Occupational Cancer.
3. Asbestosis.
4. Silicosis.
5. Lead poisoning including poisoning by occupational diseases in building and other construction work to be notified by any preparation or compound of lead or their sequela.
6. Benzene poisoning, including poisoning by any of its homologues, their nitro or amino, derivatives or its sequela.
7. Occupational asthma.
8. Pesticide poisoning.
9. Toxic jaundice.
10. Toxic anemia.
11. Compressed air illness (Caissons diseases).
12. Noise induced hearing loss.
13. Toxic nephritis.
14. Cancer operation/ treatment.
15. Heart surgery.
16. Kidney transplant.

Benefits
Financial Coverage: ₹1,00,000/- or actual expenses, whichever is less.
Note: To avail the scheme benefits, the applicant have to exhaust the benefit of ₹50,000/- for all his/her health ailments with the health card facility under the Bhagat “Puran Singh Sehat Beema Yojna” Scheme.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Punjab.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should have a monthly income of ₹15,000/- or below.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
The applicant should not have membership of the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF)/ National Pension System (NPS)/ Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).
The applicant should not be an income tax payer.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Punjab or should be a family member of the worker.
The expenditure on treatment of the disease must be verified by the Civil Surgeon.
The applicant should have exhausted the benefit of ₹50,000/- for all his/her health ailments with the health card facility under the Bhagat “Puran Singh Sehat Beema Yojna” Scheme.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
For new registration of workers please approach the nearby Sewa Kendra or Registering officers/ Labour Inspector.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
To apply for benefits of the concerned welfare scheme, please approach to nearby Sewa Kendra or Registering Officers/ Labour Inspector of your area.
Note:
Registration with the Board: A construction worker becomes a member of the board by filling out Application Form No 28 along with depositing registration fees of ₹ 25/- only (once in life) and ₹ 10/- per month as contribution fees. A worker at a time can get himself registered for a minimum period of 1 year & maximum period of 5 years. The registered worker is called 'Beneficiary' of the Board.
Important Links:
Check Your Registration Application Status: Registered workers can check their registration application status through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Download Registration Card: Registered workers can download their registration Registration Card through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Check your Scheme Application Status: Registered workers can check their scheme application status through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
CSC Locator: Visit this link to search nearest Common Service Center (CSC) of your area.
List of Sewa Kendra: Visit this link to see the list of Sewa Kendra.
Helpdesk:
Punjab Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
Address: Labour Bhawan Model Welfare Centre Phase 10, Sector 64, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab, 160062
Phone : +91 172-2540125
Email : bocwhq@gmail.com
For Bocw Portal Related Queries (Technical Support):-
Phone : +91 172-2540125
Email : bocwhq@gmail.com
Office Visiting Hours : Monday to Friday
(09:00 AM to 05:00 PM)
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Age proof (If no age proof is available self declaration).
Residence proof.
Aadhaar card(if available).
Bank Account details (Bank branch, account No. and IFSC/ RTGS number).
Detail of dependents.
Employer’s Certificate (Form No. 28) (90 days of construction work during the last 12 months in the State of Punjab).
Nomination Form (Form No. 27).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Medical Certificate of the Beneficiary or Family Member.
Proof of  Expenditure on Treatment (verified by the Civil Surgeon).
Any other documents (if required).
