Maternity Benefit Scheme (P.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Punjab
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourMaternity BenefitPregnancyWomen
Details
The "Maternity Benefit Scheme'' by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Punjab, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide financial assistance to construction workers to support childbirth-related expenses for upto two living children of the registered female construction workers and spouse of the male workers.

Benefits
Female Construction Workers: ₹21,000/- per child, maximum of two children.
Male Construction Workers: ₹5,000/- per child, maximum of two children (for children of their spouse).
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Punjab.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should have a monthly income of ₹15,000/- or below.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
The applicant should not have membership of the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF)/ National Pension System (NPS)/ Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC).
The applicant should not be an income tax payer.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The beneficiary should have been a registered member of the Board for at least 6 months prior to the birth of the child.
The beneficiary should have regularly depositing his contribution.
The scheme applies upto two living children.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
For new registration of workers please approach the nearby Sewa Kendra or Registering officers/ Labour Inspector.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
To apply for benefits of the concerned welfare scheme, please approach to nearby Sewa Kendra or Registering Officers/ Labour Inspector of your area.
Note:
Registration with the Board: A construction worker becomes a member of the board by filling out Application Form No 28 along with depositing registration fees of ₹ 25/- only (once in life) and ₹ 10/- per month as contribution fees. A worker at a time can get himself registered for a minimum period of 1 year & maximum period of 5 years. The registered worker is called 'Beneficiary' of the Board.
Important Links:
Check Your Registration Application Status: Registered workers can check their registration application status through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Download Registration Card: Registered workers can download their registration Registration Card through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Check your Scheme Application Status: Registered workers can check their scheme application status through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
CSC Locator: Visit this link to search nearest Common Service Center (CSC) of your area.
List of Sewa Kendra: Visit this link to see the list of Sewa Kendra.
Helpdesk:
Punjab Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
Address: Labour Bhawan Model Welfare Centre Phase 10, Sector 64, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab, 160062
Phone : +91 172-2540125
Email : bocwhq@gmail.com
For Bocw Portal Related Queries (Technical Support):-
Phone : +91 172-2540125
Email : bocwhq@gmail.com
Office Visiting Hours : Monday to Friday
(09:00 AM to 05:00 PM)
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Age proof (If no age proof is available self declaration).
Residence proof.
Aadhaar card(if available).
Bank Account details (Bank branch, account No. and IFSC/ RTGS number).
Detail of dependents.
Employer’s Certificate (Form No. 28) (90 days of construction work during the last 12 months in the State of Punjab).
Nomination Form (Form No. 27).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Child Photo with Parents.
Aadhaar Card of Child.
Date of Birth Certificate by the Registrar.
Death Certificate (In case one of the children has died).
