Thayi Magu Sahaya Hastha (K.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Karnataka
Building WorkerChildConstruction WorkerEducationLabourPre-schoolWomen
Details
The "Thayi Magu Sahaya Hastha'' by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Karnataka, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this Scheme, financial support shall be provided to registered women construction workers for pre-school education and nutritional support of their child for up to 3 years after delivery. Assistance can be availed for up to 2 children.

Benefits
Financial Assistance: ₹6,000/- (at the rate of ₹500/- per month).
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
The applicant should be a minimum of 18 years of age.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered woman construction worker Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Karnataka.
The child must be under 3 years of age.
The assistance is available for the first 2 children only.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Register”.
Step 2: Select “Register as New Construction Worker” then enter your mobile number as per the Aadhaar Registered and verify with the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Registration”.
Step 4: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents. Click on “Final Submit” to complete the registration process.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Schemes” (After the user Registration is approved, the user can access the schemes page).
Step 4: Select the concerned scheme. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 5:  Review the details and check the declaration box. Now click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Renewal Process:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Renewal”. Fill in mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 4: Review the details and click on “Submit” to complete the renewal process.
Note:
Renewal: Every construction worker must renew their registration with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board every 3 years. If not renewed within this period, a 1-year grace period is granted. After that, the registration becomes invalid. 
Timeline:
Application can be submitted within 6 months of delivery.
Application can be submitted every year (up to 3 years).
Child living Affidavit shall be submitted for second and third year.
Helpdesk:
Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board,
Address: Karmika Bhavan, Dairy Circle, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore-29.
Office No: 080-29753078
E-mail: labour.commissioner42@gmail.com
List of District Office.
List of Taluk Offices.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
Aadhar Card (Self-Attested).
Ration Card(non-mandatory).
Age Proof (Voter ID Card/Aadhar Card).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Proof of Identity/Smart card issued by the Board (Attested).
An Affidavit stating that the claim for second Delivery.
Proof of Bank Account.
Photo of Child.
Employment Certificate.
Discharge Summary.
Birth Certificate of Child.
For the Renewal Process:
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
