Kaimagga Vikasa Yojana - Karnataka
Karnataka
HandloomSkill DevelopmentSubsidyWeaver
Details
The “Kaimagga Vikasa Yojana” was launched by the Department of Handloom & Textiles, Government of Karnataka. The scheme aims to sustain and develop the handloom weaving skills of existing weavers and to attract young talent to the industry, thus preserving the rich cultural heritage of handloom weaving in Karnataka. The scheme is designed to help both traditional and new weavers by offering support for the purchase of new handlooms and necessary equipment.

Equipment Covered:
Equipment such as handlooms, electronic jacquards, pre-loom facilities like knotting machines, and warping machines are covered under the scheme.

Benefits
Subsidy: 
Beneficiaries can get 50% of the unit cost of new handloom/equipment/machinery. 

Disbursement of Subsidy:
50% after initial verification and the remaining 50% after confirming the purchase of equipment.

NOTE: The remaining 50% can be financed by the beneficiary from a financial institution/bank loan or through the beneficiary's own capital.
Eligibility
The weaver should have membership in Handloom Weaver Co-operative Societies residing in their own house/rented house, or Handloom Associations/Organisations/Karnataka Development Corporation. 
Traditional weavers should practice the current handloom weaving profession. 
The weaver should have a Weaver's Identity Card.
Young men and women who are starting their weaving career must have completed training in handloom weaving under any government scheme and possess the relevant certificate.
The weaver purchasing a warping machine should have a proper certificate of experience in washing and the necessary space to install the machine.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the district-level office of the Handloom and Textile Department. and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the district-level office of the Handloom and Textile Department.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Weaver's Identity Card (Attested Copy)
Handloom Weaving Training Certificate (Attested Copy) 
Loan Sanction Letter/ Letter of Agreement for financing 50% of unit cost from Financial Institution/ Bank Loan/Own Capital
Any other document if required 
