Arivu Education Loan Scheme
Karnataka
LoanMinority CommunityStudent
Details
The "Arivu Education Loan Scheme" was launched by the Minorities Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka, and is implemented by the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation. The scheme aims to provide loans to students who wish to pursue professional courses such as M.B.B.S., M.D., M.S., B.E., B.Tech., M.E., M.Tech., B.D.S., M.D.S., B.Ayush, M.Ayush, M.B.A., M.C.A., L.L.B., B.Arch, M.Arch, B.Sc. in Horticulture, Agriculture, Dairy Technology, Forestry, Veterinary, Animal Sciences, Food Technology, Biotechnology, Fisheries, Sericulture, Home/Community Sciences, Food Nutrition and Dietetics, B.Pharma, M.Pharma, Pharma.D, and D.Pharma.

Benefits
Loan Amount:
The loan amount is granted from ₹50,000/- to ₹5,00,000/- every year until the course duration. 

Loan Renewal Process:
Renewal and pay 12% of the loan amount issued by the corporation during the previous year at their respective District Office.

Loan Repayment:
Repay the loan with service charges of 2% after 6 months of completion of the course.
Eligibility
The student should belong to the State Religious Minority Community.
The student should be a permanent resident of the State.
The annual income of the family should not exceed ₹8,00,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Application Process for Fresh Loan:
Step-01: Applicant need to visits the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation official website. 
Step-02: Click "Apply Online" and Enter "Mobile Number" and "Submit".
Step-03: Enter "Aadhaar Number" Fill in the "Captcha" and Select "Next".
Step-04: Applicant will get OTP in his/her Aadhaar Linked Mobile Number.
Step-05: Enter "OTP" and select "Continue", After that Allow the official notice.
Step-06: After verifying the Aadhaar again fill in the "OTP" and Submit.
Step-07: Select the scheme "Sikhligar’s Community Development Scheme" and fill in the basic details father's name, gender, qualification detail
Step-08: Select "Next" Fill in the address detail and again select "Next".
Step-09: Upload the required document passport-size photo, educational document, income certificate, etc. 
Step-10: Click "Proceed" and Select "Submit Application" and get an Application ID.

Application Process for Renewal loan:
Step-01: Go to the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation official website.
Step-02: Choose the "Arivu Education Loan Scheme" and click "Apply Online."
Step-03: Select "ARIVU.Renewal" Enter mobile number and "Submit".
Step-04: Applicant's personal, address, and bank details will be pre-filled from the previous application. No need to fill them again.
Step-05: Upload the required document and Submit the application. 
Documents Required
Document for Fresh Application
Recent Two Passport-size Photos of the Student.
Student's Caste Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Aadhaar Card.
CET Admission Letter.
NEET Admission Letter.
Student's SSLC/10th Marks Card Copy.
Student's Diploma/PUC Marks Card.
Indemnity Bond (Download the from the KMDC Website).
Student’s College Bank Details.
Student Bonafide/Study Certificate.
Student Self-declaration Form (Download the from the KMDC Website).
Parents Self-Declaration Form (Download the from the KMDC Website).
College Fee Structure

Document for Renewal Loan
Bonafide/Study Certificate.
College Fee Structure.
Previous Year Passed Marks Card.
College Bank Details.
Security Deposit Paid Receipt (12% of Loan Amount).
Copy of KEA Admission Order.
