Antarjatiye Vivah Protsahan Anudan Yojana
Bihar
AntarjatiyeFinancial AssistanceInter-caste MarriageVivah
Details
The "Antarjatiye Vivah Protsahan Anudan Yojana" is a sub-scheme of the "Mukhyamantri Vivah Protsahan Anudan Yojana", initiated by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Bihar. The objective of this scheme is to end the caste system in the state and encourage inter-caste marriages by providing financial assistance to couples. This scheme is fully funded by the Government of Bihar.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive a one-time grant of ₹1,00,000/-.
Note: The grant will be provided to the bride.
Eligibility
The bride and groom should be residents of Bihar.
The marriage should be an inter-caste marriage.
At the time of marriage, the bride should be at least 18 years old, and the groom should be at least 21 years old.
The bride and groom should belong to poor families.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits of this scheme, individuals who meet the eligibility criteria should submit their applications in the prescribed form to the Assistant Director, District Social Security Office.
Note: After approval and verification, the details of the beneficiaries will be transmitted on the e-Suvidha portal for payment by the Assistant Director, District Social Security Office.
Grievance Redressal & Escalation Matrix:
The complaint can be lodged in the Block Development Officer, Sub-divisional Office, Assistant Director, District Social Security Cell/District Child Protection Unit, Director, Social Security Office and the office of Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/Secretary, Social Welfare Department. The office of Public Grievance Redressal Officer is functioning at the sub-divisional level and the office of District Public Grievance Redressal Officer is functioning at the district level.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant (Bride & groom)
Latest photograph of the married couple 
Identity proofs (e.g., Voter ID Card, Driving License etc.)
Proof of age
Marriage certificate
Disability certificate, if applicable
Income certificate
Caste certificates
Residence proof
Bank passbook/bank account details
Any additional documents as required
