Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana
Odisha
BijuHousePucca Ghar
Details
The government of Odisha is committed to providing pucca houses to all the rural households living in Kutcha houses. State Government to achieve this objective launched "Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY)" in 2014. To make the scheme more transparent and implementable.
Objective 
The objective of the scheme is to convert all Kutcha houses into Pucca houses in rural areas of the state in a mission-mode approach. A Pucca house means that it should be able to withstand normal wear & tear due to usage and natural forces, including climatic conditions.

A “Pucca” house is one with the following characteristics:
1. Material: It should have a foundation, wall and roof of permanent material.
2. Wall material: Fly ash bricks, burnt bricks, stones (packed with lime or cement), cement concrete, etc.
3. Roof Material: Tiles, GCI (Galvanized Corrugated Iron) sheets, asbestos cement sheets, RBC (Reinforced Brick Concrete) and RCC (Reinforced Cement Concrete) etc.
4. Lifetime: The expected life of the structure must be a minimum of 30 years
5. It is clarified that the above definition is only for the verification of households with Pucca houses. The houses that shall be constructed under this scheme shall be of RCC or any other material of equivalent strength approved by the PR & DW Department.

Key Features:
Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana is a State plan scheme and is designed to provide Pucca houses to eligible rural households living in the Kutcha houses.
The dwelling unit under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana will be sanctioned preferably in the name of the woman head of the household.
No contractor shall be involved in the construction of houses under the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana.
The fund under the scheme shall be credited to the beneficiary’s account from the Bank account maintained at the State level through the Public Financial Management System (PFMS). No other form of payment to the beneficiaries will be made under the scheme.
The minimum carpet area of the house should be 25 square meters including a hygienic cooking space and excluding a toilet. The roof material will mandatorily be of RCC or any other material of equivalent strength approved by the Panchayati Raj & Drinking Water Department. Innovation in housing typologies, design, building materials and construction should be encouraged.

The Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana has two components - 
Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana(Normal): Incentive to the beneficiaries, officials & CBOs/NGOs involved in the implementation of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) or any other State-funded Rural Housing Schemes for early completion of the house.
Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (Special): Rehabilitation/ relocation of the Household whose house has been fully/severely damaged by natural/ manmade calamities like fire, flood, cyclone, earthquake, elephant menace, communal violence, LWE violence, major law and order problem etc.

Timeline:
The houses under Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana will be ordinarily completed within 12 months from the credit of 1% instalment in her/his account. Beneficiaries constructing a bigger house must be advised to first complete the core house with a carpet area of at least 25 square meters and go for an extension subsequently.

Benefits
Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (Normal): 
1. Incentive to the beneficiaries, officials, & CBOs/NGOs involved in the implementation of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin), or any other State-funded Rural Housing Schemes for early completion of houses.
For completion of the house and IHHL within 4 months of receipt of the 1" instalment, the incentive of ₹ 20,000/- will be paid to the beneficiary.
For completion of the house and IHHL within 6 months of receipt of the 1" instalment, the incentive of ₹ 10,000/- will be paid to the beneficiary. 
The incentive amount is subject to revision by the government from time to time.
2. Award for Excellence in rural housing to State/District/Block teams and officers/officials involved in implementation. The eligibility, type, category of the awards and other modalities shall be decided by the Department from time to time.
3. The expenditure required for conducting the Award distribution ceremonies at various levels.
4. Preparation of IEC material.
5. Imparting habitat and housing literacy to beneficiaries.
6. Payment of honorarium/incentives to SHGs, CRPs, & CBOs for facilitating the construction of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana Houses.
7. Training of officials.
8. Cost of the engraved logo of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana to be installed by the beneficiaries.
9. Others, with approval of PR & DW departments.
10. These amounts can be paid through RTGS/NEFT/other electronic modes of payment.

Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (Special): The unit cost under Biju Pucca Ghar (Special) for the construction of a new Pucca house is ₹ 1,20,000/- for non-IAP districts and ₹ 1,30,000/- for IAP districts. This can be revised by the P.R. and D.W. Department from time to time.

Release of Installments: 
The number and amounts of installments may be revised by the Government from time to time. At present, the release of instalments will be as follows:

Instalments Level Amount (IAP District)
Amount (Non-IAP District)
1st Instalment On the date of issuance of the work order  ₹ 20,000/- ₹ 20,000/-
2nd Instalment On completion of the plinth ₹ 35,000/- ₹ 30,000/-
3rd Instalment On completion of up to roof level ₹ 45,000/- ₹ 40,000/-
4th Instalment After completion of the house in all respects, including the sanitary latrine and beneficiary starts living in the house ₹ 30,000/- ₹ 30,000/-

Total ₹ 1,30,000/- ₹ 1,20,000/-

For issuance of a work order, geo-tagged photographs of the beneficiary with her/his Kutcha house and geo-tagged photographs of the beneficiary with the proposed site of construction should be collected.
All photographs for inspection of houses should be taken and uploaded using AwaasApp developed by Gol or any other such App developed by the State Government.
The photograph of the beneficiary, her/his Aadhaar UID/ EID, and mobile number should be kept in the case record and uploaded in AwaasSoft. In case the beneficiary does not have a mobile connection/Phone, her/his family/relative/friend’s mobile number provided by the beneficiary should be recorded.
The 2%, 3 & 4" instalments will be credited to the beneficiary account by the BDO within a week of receipt of the report of the eye estimation, spot verification and Geo-tagged photographic evidence of the stage of construction by the official tagged with the beneficiary concerned.
The beneficiary will fix the engraved logo of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana on the front wall of the house indicating the name of the beneficiaries, year of sanction unit cost etc. after which the 4" instalment will be released.
Funds will be credited to the beneficiary account through Direct Account Transfer using the Public Financial Management System (PFMS).
Eligibility
Eligibility 
 The applicant must be a permanent resident of Odisha state.
 An application must belong to an economically weaker section.
 The applicant must be living in a kutcha house.
 The application should not own any pucca house in the state.
Beneficiary allotted a house under any Scheme whose house was washed away/ fully damaged/has fully collapsed due to landslide/elephant menace/earthquake/flood or cyclone will also get a house under the Scheme.

The Scheme is applicable to 36 Blocks of 9 mining-affected districts as mentioned below. 

S No District Block
1 Angul Athamalik
2 Angul Banarpal
3 Angul Chhendipada
4 Angul Kaniha
5 Angul Kishorenagar
6 Angul Talcher
7 Dhenkanal Kankadahad
8 Jajpur Sukinda
9 Jharsuguda Jharsuguda
10 Jharsuguda Lakhanpur
11 Keonjhar Bansapal
12 Keonjhar Champua
13 Keonjhar Harichandanpur
14 Keonjhar Hatadihi
15 Keonjhar Jhumpura
16 Keonjhar Joda
17 Keonjhar Keonjhar Sadar
18 Koraput Dasamantpur
19 Koraput Koraput
20 Koraput Pottangi
21 Koraput Laxmipur
22 Koraput Narayanpatna
23 Koraput Semiliguda
24 Mayurbhanj Joshipur
25 Mayurbhanj Kusumi
26 Mayurbhanj Rairangpur
27 Mayurbhanj Tiring
28 Rayagada Kashipur
29 Sundergarh Gurundia
30 Sundergarh Hemgiri
31 Sundergarh Koira
32 Sundergarh Kauramunda
33 Sundergarh Kutra
34 Sundergarh Lahunipara
35 Sundergarh Nuagoan
36 Sundergarh Rajgangpur

All kutcha households in mining-affected Blocks as mentioned above will be assisted for the construction of Pucca houses on saturation mode except for the households belonging to the following categories :

HH, who has been sanctioned house earlier under any of the RH Schemes.
HH, who lives in Pucca house.
Application Process
Online
Offline

Step 1: Visit the official website of Rural Housing Odisha.
Step 2: Click on "Registration" and complete all required details in the Beneficiary Registration Form. Receive an OTP by entering your mobile number.
Step 3: Submit the form after filling it out.
Step 4: Check for announcements or notifications regarding the beneficiary list.

Selection Process :
1. District-wise wise Physical target for a financial year will be fixed by the P.R. and D. W. Department.
2. The selection of beneficiaries for Biju Pucca Ghar (special) will be done by a District Level Committee (DLC) consisting of the following members:
i. District Collector - Chairman
ii. Hon'ble MPs (Lok Sabha) of District - Member
iii. Hon'ble MLAs of the District - Member
iv. President Zilla Parishad - Member
v. PD, DRDA-cum-EO, ZP - Member Convener
3. The District Level Committee will approve the list, after which it will be communicated to the BDOs by the District Collector.
4. In case the District Level Committee fails to approve the list within the timeline fixed by the Collector, the District Collector will approve the list available to him and communicate to the BDOs.
5. The final list will be published at the concerned Gram Panchayat/Block headquarters and will also be made available on the DRDA Website and State Rural Housing portal for information of the public.
Documents Required
List of required documents
Aadhaar Card
Bonafide certificate
Voter ID card
Residence certificate
Address Proof
Identification Proof
BPL Certificate
EWS Certificate
Passport size photograph
