Pucca Ghar Yojana (Mining)
Odisha
GharHousingMiningOdishaPucca
Details
The government of Odisha is committed to providing "Pucca Houses" to all the eligible kutcha households in all the mining-affected blocks of nine mineral-bearing Districts: Angul, Dhenkanal, Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar, Koraput, Mayurbhanj, Sundargarh & Rayagada. Assistance to construct Pucca houses will be sanctioned to eligible households in these areas under the "Pucca Ghar Yojana (Mining)" Scheme.

Objectives of the Scheme:
The objective of the Scheme is to convert all Kutcha houses into Pucca houses. The HHs residing in Blocks affected by mining activities will be covered in saturation mode. A Pucca house means that it should be able to withstand normal wear & tear due to usage and natural forces, including climatic conditions.

A "Pucca" house is one with the following characteristics:
Material: It should have a foundation, wall and roof of permanent material.
Wall material: Fly ash bricks, burnt bricks, stones (packed with lime or cement), cement concrete, etc.
Roof Material: Tiles, GCI (Galvanized Corrugated Iron) sheets, asbestos cement sheets, RBC (Reinforced Brick Concrete), RCC (Reinforced Cement Concrete) etc.
Lifetime: The expected life of the structure must be a minimum of 30 years.
It is clarified that the above definition is only for verification of households with Pucca houses. The roofs of the houses that shall be constructed under this Scheme shall be of RCC or any other material of equivalent strength approved by the PR & DW Department.

A "Kutcha" house is one in which walls and/or roof are made of materials such as un-burnt bricks, bamboo, mud, grass, reeds, thatch, loosely packed stones etc. and materials not mentioned in the above pucca house characteristics which are not durable due to inappropriate application of techniques and are not able to withstand normal wear and tear.

Benefits
The unit cost under the Pucca Ghar Yojana (Mining) for the construction of a new Pucca house is ₹ 1,20,000/- for non-IAP Districts and ₹ 1,30,000/- for IAP Districts. This can be revised by the State Government from time to time.
The beneficiary of Pucca Ghar Yojana will get a wage component for 90 person days and 95 person days in non-IAP and IAP Districts respectively, under MGNREGS, which can be revised by the government from time to time.
The beneficiary of Pucca Ghar Yojana Mining will avail assistance for Individual Household Latrine (IHHL) under the said scheme. The unit assistance for the construction of an Individual House Hold Latrine will cost ₹ 12,000, which can be revised by the government from time to time.
In addition, the beneficiaries are entitled to convergence for potable drinking water supply system, Electrification under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDU GJY)/ BGJY, wages for Land Development under MGNREGS, Social Security under AABY / RSBY etc. as per extant guidelines.
The beneficiary will avail of an incentive for early completion of the house as follows:-
For the completion of the house including IHHL within 4 months of receipt of Installment, the incentive of ₹ 20,000/- will be paid to the beneficiary.
For completion of the house including IHHL within 6 months of receipt of 1" instalment, the incentive of ₹ 10,000/- will be paid to the beneficiary. The incentive amount is subject to revision by the Government from time to time.
Eligibility
1. All kutcha households in mining-affected blocks, as mentioned in the below table, will be assisted with the construction of Pucca houses on saturation mode, except for the households belonging to the following categories;
Households, that have been sanctioned house earlier under any of the RH Schemes. 
Households who live in Pucca house.
2. The Scheme applies to 36 Blocks of 9 mining-affected districts, as mentioned below:

SI. No.
District
Block
1 Angul Athamalik Banarpal Chhendipada Kaniha Kishorenagar Talcher
2 Dhenkanal Kankadahad
3 Jajpur Sukhinda
4 Jharsuguda Jharsuguda Takhanour
5 Keonjhar Bansapal Champua Harichandanpur Hatadihi Jhumpura Joda Keonjhar Sadar

6 Koraput Dasamantpur Koraput Pottangi Laxmipur Narayanpatna Semilicuda
7 Mayurbhanj Joshipur Kusumi Rairangpur Tiring
8 Rayagada Kashipur
9 Sundergarh Gurundia Hemgiri Koira Kauramunda Kutra Lahunipara Nuagoan Raigangpur
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website of Rural Housing Odisha.
Step 2: Click on "Registration" and complete all required details in the Beneficiary Registration Form. Receive an OTP by entering your mobile number.
Step 3: Submit the form after filling it out.
Step 4: Check for announcements or notifications regarding the beneficiary list.

Selection Process: 
BDO will survey field functionaries to ascertain eligible households residing in the Block area.
The list of eligible households will be verified with that of beneficiaries sanctioned houses earlier under any of the Schemes. Those who have a house that has been sanctioned house should be deleted from the list. After that, BDO will sanction the houses to the eligible beneficiaries.
BDO will intimate the number of eligible households to DRDA. PD, DRDA will communicate the number of eligible households in respect of his District to the PR&DW Department.
PR&DW Department will set online targets in AwaasSoft or any other software developed by the State for sanction of houses in favour of eligible households by BDO.
BDO will obtain from eligible households a copy of RoR, a declaration as to staying in a Kutcha house and construction of a house on the recorded land of the concerned household, a copy of the Bank Account to which the household intends to credit the housing and other assistance, photograph of the beneficiary, her/his Aadhar UID/ EID, mobile number and will keep those in the case record opened for the beneficiaries.
The BDO will issue work orders to all the eligible beneficiaries.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card
Passport size photograph
Ration Card
Residence certificate
Income certificate
Proof of age
Bank details
