Quality Improvement Programme (QIP)
Ministry of Education
AllowanceDirect Benefit TransferFacultyPostgraduationScholarship
Details
The scheme "Quality Improvement Programme" was launched by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in the year 1970. One of its primary objectives is to enhance the expertise and capabilities of faculty members in degree and diploma-level institutions across the country. The program is overseen by the All India Council for Technical Education. In the "Quality Improvement Programme," only sponsored teachers are eligible for admission to both Master's and Doctoral Degree Programs. The aim is to enable teachers to acquire Master's and Doctoral degrees and instil in them a culture of research and improved educational capabilities by exposing them to the environment of study institutions.

Category
The Scheme covers the following categories of applicants:
Faculty Members of AICTE-approved Polytechnic Institutes (Diploma level) (with valid Faculty ID of AICTE) for pursuing M.E./M.Tech. programs.
Faculty Members of AICTE approved Degree Level Engineering/Management Institutes (with valid Faculty ID of AICTE) for pursuing Ph.D. programs.

Benefits
Duration
Master of Engineering (ME) or Master of Technology (M.Tech) Programs: 2 years, with no provision for an extension.
Ph.D. Program: The duration is normally 3 years, and in exceptional cases, it can be extended by 1 year as a special case at the Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) center, but without a scholarship for the extended period.

Scholarship
For Master of Engineering (ME) or Master of Technology (M.Tech) Programs
Scholarship: ₹9,000 per month.
Annual Contingency: ₹5,000 per annum.

For Ph.D. Programme
Scholarship: ₹15,000 per month.
Annual Contingency: ₹15,000.
Pre-Ph.D. Expenses: One-time lump sum amount.
Travel Allowance (TA): ₹15,000.
Daily Allowance (DA): ₹30,000 for a Pre-Ph.D. duration of 60 days (no TA & DA if the parent institute and admitting institute are the same). Full Pre-Ph.D. grant for offline work. For partial online and offline Pre-Ph.D. work, payment at the rate of ₹750 per day for the offline period, with no provision for Pre-Ph.D. payment for online work.

Leaves
Casual leave: 15 days in an academic year.
Medical leave: Maximum of one month (30 days) in an academic year.
Maternity/Paternity leave: as per Govt. of India norms issued from time to time at full rates of scholarship, etc. once during the tenure of their award. However, the maximum duration of the scholarship will not be extended in any circumstances.
NOTE: Prior approval of the QIP center is mandatory for all leaves.

Mode of Payment
The Scholarship/ Annual Contingency/ Pre- PhD etc. will be released through the online QIP portal directly to the beneficiary’s Aadhar-linked account through DBT mode.
Eligibility
1. For Master's Degree Program:
   - Full-time regular/permanent faculty members of AICTE-approved Polytechnic (Diploma) institutes having
     1. One year of teaching experience at the polytechnic level.
     2. A Bachelor's degree in the appropriate branch.
     3. In addition to the above minimum eligibility, the criteria of the respective QIP center must be fulfilled.

2. For Ph.D. Program in Engineering/Management:
   - Full-time regular/permanent faculty members of AICTE approved Degree Level institutes having
     1. Three years of teaching experience at graduate-level institutes.
     2. A Master's degree in the appropriate branch.
     3. In addition to the above minimum eligibility, the criteria of the respective QIP center must be fulfilled.

NOTE: All the eligibility for applying for the programme will be counted as on the last date of submission of the application as notified in the advertisement.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Application
- Faculty Members of AICTE approved Institutions should visit the Official Website of QIP within the specified dates. Fill out the detailed online application form.
Step 2: Eligibility Screening
- Your application will undergo screening to ensure it meets the minimum eligibility criteria.
Step 3: Preference Selection
- If you meet the eligibility criteria, your application will be forwarded to the QIP center or institute based on your preferences.
- The respective QIP centers will then shortlist candidates for interviews/tests based on department-specific eligibility criteria.
Step 4: Interview/Tests
- Shortlisted applicants will be informed about the interview/test details via email from the concerned QIP center(s)/Department.
Step 5: Merit List and Offer
- Based on your performance and recommendations from the QIP Institute, the National QIP Coordination Committee (NQCC) will prepare the final merit list.
- If you're selected, you'll receive an admission offer letter from the concerned QIP center/Department of the institute.

Application Fee
(a) Application Fee (Non-refundable):
- General/OBC Candidate: ₹1700/-
- SC/ST/PwD/Female Candidate: ₹850/-

Important Dates
- Link open for Online Application: 22nd February 2023
- Last date for submitting Online Application: 25th March 2023
- Result (Tentative): 3rd Week of June 2023
Apply Now
Documents Required
Photograph: JPEG/PNG, 2 MB
Signature: JPEG/PNG, 2 MB
Aadhaar Card: PDF, 2 MB
Experience Certificate: Single PDF of current as well as previous experiences, 10 MB
10th Marksheet: PDF, 2 MB
10th Certificate: PDF, 2 MB
12th Marksheet: PDF, 2 MB
12th Certificate: PDF, 2 MB
Bachelor's Marksheet (Consolidated): PDF, 2 MB
Bachelor's Degree: PDF, 2 MB
Master's Marksheet (Compulsory only for Ph.D Applicants): PDF, 2 MB
Master's Degree (Compulsory only for Ph.D Applicants): PDF, 2 MB
GATE Certificate (if any): PDF, 2 MB
NET UGC/CSIR (if any) Certificate: PDF, 2 MB
JRF UGC/CSIR (if any) Certificate: PDF, 2 MB
Category Certificate (Mandatory for SC/ST/OBC/EWS): PDF, 2 MB
Non-Objection Certificate (NOC): PDF, 2 MB
