National Handicrafts Development Programme: Infrastructure And Technology Support: URBAN HAAT
Ministry Of Textiles
ArtisanEntrepreneurshipHandicraftHandloomWeaver
Details
The scheme "Infrastructure and Technology Support: URBAN HAAT" is a Component/Sub-Scheme under the Umbrella Scheme "National Handicrafts Development Programme". The objective of this component is to set up a permanent marketing infrastructure in towns/ metropolitan cities to provide direct marketing facilities to handicrafts artisans/handloom weavers. This will enable them to sell their products around the year to a wider target audience (or customer segment). There will be an adequate number of stalls selling authentic Indian cuisine from various regions in the country by rotation.

The haat shall be constructed in an area of not less than 8,000 sq. m. and will have a display gallery, food court, etc. The stalls are allotted to artisans on a rotational basis for a nominal rent. The implementing agencies will be encouraged to form SPVs with the active participation of the various agencies dealing with the promotion of Tourism, Culture, Food, Processing Industry, etc., involving the tour operators, and hotel operators in addition to those dealing with handloom and handicrafts for broad basing and ensure utilization of facilities for a long duration for management and day-to-day running of the same.

Benefits
Financial Assistance and Funding Pattern for the Implementing Agencies:
The financial ceiling for urban haat is ₹ 8,00,00,000 for each unit.
40% of the admissible amount shall be borne by the O/o the DC(HC) and DC(HL) each. 20% of the admissible amount will be contributed by the implementing agency.
Land will be provided by implementing agencies and will be over and above the 20% contribution by the implementing agency.
In the case of NER, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, and Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep – 45% of the admissible amount will be borne by the O/o the DC (HC) and DC(HL) each. 10% of the admissible amount shall be contributed by the implementing agency.
Assistance will also be given for strengthening/renovation of existing Urban Haats subject to a maximum financial limit of ₹ 2,50,00,000 (100% assistance will be borne by the Office of the DC (Handicrafts) & DC (Handlooms).

NOTE 1: Assistance will also be given for Mini Urban Haats on need-based and feasibility. The financial assistance will be based on the number of stalls, land area & other deliverables in a proportionate manner. 
The PAMC shall comprise DC(HC), DC(HL), and a representative of IFW.

Upon receipt of the Financial Assistance, the following shall be the deliverables for the Implementing Agency:
Erection of 50-80 Stalls of 10x8 sq. ft. each.
2 Toilets each for Ladies and Gents 
Dormitory for Craftspersons with provisions for a minimum of 100 people
Food Court
Pavilion /Stage for Cultural Programme
Store Room 
Meeting/Conference Room
Souvenir Shop

Benefits for the Buyers/Tourists:
The Food & Craft Bazaar will provide leisure & recreational facilities for domestic as well as international tourists on the lines of Dilli Haat, which has already attained a prominent status amongst domestic & International buyers/ tourists. 
Eligibility
The Implementing Agencies can be the following: 
Central/ State Handloom and Handicrafts Development Corporations, Central Cottage Industries Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIC), and any other eligible Govt. Corporations/ agencies promoted by State Government or local Govt. bodies etc. Local statutory bodies, Apex Cooperative Societies, National level Apex Societies (registered under the society act/ trust act, etc.), and organizations like IICT, HMCM, NIFT, MHSC, and Export Promotion Councils.
Application Process
Offline
For the Implementing Agencies:
The proposals in the prescribed proforma along with all the (self-attested) supporting documents in hard copy should reach the concerned Handicraft Service Center (HSC), O/o the DC (HC) in time.

The (tentative) timeline/last date for the submission of proposals is as below:
Submission of proposals by implementing agencies to the concerned field office (HSC), O/o the DC (HC) latest by 04th November 2022.
The concerned HSC should forward the proposal to Hqrs. Office with a copy to the concerned Regional Director, O/o the DC (HC) along with their recommendations latest by 11th November 2022.
The proposals in hard copy should reach the Headquarter office by latest by 18th November 2022 at field offices.

NOTE 1: The proposal sent earlier without any invitation or received after the timeline/last date, mentioned above, will not be entertained.
NOTE 2: Incomplete proposals without the mandatory enclosures and proposals that are not clearly recommended and received after the due date will not be considered.

For the Artisans:
Step 1: Visit the Online Application Form.
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details: Event Type, Aadhaar Number, Name of Artisan, Photo, ID Card No., Date of Issue, Recognition, Gender, Category, Father/Husband Name, Address, State, District, PIN Code, Mobile Number, Email ID, Craft Practice, Sub Craft Practice.
Step 3: Upload the required (self-attested) documents related to: Past Haat-Bazaar-Exhibition attended in last five years; Assistance detail who will support you in Exhibition.
Step 4: Check the "Declaration" box and click "Submit". You will get acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application on your registered Email ID / Mobile Number, along with a Reference ID.
Documents Required
For Fresh Proposals:
Proposal in prescribed proforma.
Recommendation letter of Field office/Regional Office.
Valid Registration Certificate.
Article & Memorandum of Association.
Bye-Laws.
Three years Balance Sheet & audited statement of accounts. 
Annual Report of last Year.
Affidavit in respect of Non-Corrupt Practice and validity of Registration.
Land ownership document/ Lease agreement for the proposed project/Detailed Project Report.
Feasibility report of the project to be certified by a scheduled commercial bank.
Construction plan and cost estimate duly authenticated by Architect/ Chartered Engineer.
Third-party assessment report from a recognized Chartered Engineer/ technical valuer for equipment/ machines to be installed
Undertaking that balance of the total cost to be borne by the implementing agency, along with escalated cost, if any.
Any other documents mentioned in Proforma/ desired by the competent authority.

NOTE 1: All documents should be attested by Implementing Agency. 
NOTE 2: The implementing agency will be required to sign a Memorandum of understanding specifying quantified deliverables. 
 For Reimbursement Proposals:
Monthly Performance Report/ Performance cum Achievement Report (as applicable) with photographs.
Verification report (Gist of expenditure) with the mode of payment from concerned Asst. Director, Handicrafts Service Centre/Field formation
Utilization Certification in GFR 12A duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
An audited statement of accounts and statement of expenditure duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
An inspection report from the concerned AD of the field office.
Any other documents desired by the competent authority.

For Fresh Proposals as well as Reimbursement Proposals, the applicant is required to certify the following:
1. No financial assistance has been received from any other source for the same purpose.
2. The provisions of the scheme have been fully understood and we take responsibility for the successful completion of the project within the stipulated time.
3. All infrastructures are available with the organization to implement the project.
4. There is no duplication of efforts that takes place with existing schemes of other ministries.
5. The Organization is not involved in any corrupt practices and has not been black-listed by any central/state agencies.
6. No UC is pending in any scheme of the O/o DC (Handicrafts).
