Teelu Rauteli Special Pension Scheme
Uttarakhand
Special PensionTeelu Rauteli
Details
Detailed 
Teelu Rauteli Special Pension Scheme is started by the Social Welfare Department (Government of Uttarakhand) for physically handicapped women/men Farmers. Under this scheme, the government provides financial assistance of Rs. 1200 per month for disabled women /men who are engaged in agriculture work or agriculture-related business in the state. 
This scheme is effective from the 1st April 2014 and implemented by the social welfare department in Uttarakhand. The name of the scheme Teelu Rauteli was a female warrior and folk hero who lived in Gurad Village (Pargana Chaundkot) Garhwal, Uttrakhand. During the 17th century, she fought in seven wars between the ages of fifteen and twenty.

Benefits
Benefits
The financial assistance of Rs. 1200 per month is for disabled women /men who are engaged in agriculture work or agriculture-related business in the state. 
Eligibility
Eligibility Description 
Applicant should be from an agricultural business in rural area.
The applicant's age should be between 18 to 60.
Applicant should be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand 
Applicant should have disability between 20 to 40%. 
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Applicant should visit the official site.
Select "Teelu Rauteli Special Pension" Scheme and then
Click on the option of the application form and download this.
Now fill out the form and enclose all the required documents
After checking all the information and documents in the application form, submit it to the concerned department.
Applicant should visit Social Welfare Department in the concerned District/Taluka or  Agriculture Officer or Gram Panchayat.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Aadhaar card.
Age proof.
Disabled certificates issued from Medical Board should be between 20% to 40%.
Bank account details.
Attested Passport size photos by Gram Pradhan /Jila panchayat Adhyaksh /sabhasad nagar palika / gram vikas adhikari (panchayat) .
Voter Id card.
