National Awards For Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities: National Awards For Institutions Engaged In Empowering Persons With Disabilities: Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan Ke Karyanvayan/badhamukta Vatavaran Ke Srijan Mein Sarvshrestha Rajya/ Ut/ Zila
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
AwardDistrictPerson With DisabilitySocial Welfare
Details
The "National Awards for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities" are being awarded by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment every year since 1969 in recognition of the skills and contribution of persons with disabilities, individuals and institutions engaged in the empowerment of persons with disabilities.

Award Categories
1.  National Awards for Individual Excellence
2.  National Awards for Institutions Engaged in Empowering Persons With Disabilities

The "Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan Ke Karyanvayan/Badhamukta Vatavaran Ke Srijan Mein Sarvshrestha Rajya/ UT/ Zila" award is given by DoEPwD for outstanding work in Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan and the creation of a barrier-free environment/working conditions for persons with disabilities, the working place with easy mobility, toilet facilities and directions in the sign language and other indicators, which facilitate easy movements and integrate the persons with disabilities in its overall working milieu. The Department confers national awards to commemorate the 'International Day of Persons with Disabilities' which falls on 3rd December every year. The ceremony of the National Awards is held at Vigyan Bhawan. The National Awards are presented through the Hon'ble President or Hon'ble Vice President of India.

Benefits
Decoration
The Awardee is given a Certificate and a Shield

Award Categories
One Award for providing holistic comprehensive Rehabilitation Services. 
One Award for promoting and imparting Inclusive Education or educational institutions that are preparing children with disabilities for inclusive education for higher studies. 


Presentation of Award (Ceremony Details)
1.  The ceremony of the National Awards is held at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 3rd December, every year which has been declared as the “International Day of Persons with Disabilities”. 
2.  The National Awards are presented through the Hon'ble President or Hon'ble Vice President of India.
2.  The boarding and lodging expenses of the awardees and one escort shall be borne by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 
3.  To and fro travelling expenses and accommodation for up to one day prior to and after the day of the awards ceremony shall be arranged and the expenditure shall be reimbursed by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 
4.  The TA/DA admissibility of the awardees and their escorts shall be equivalent to a Class-I officer of the Central Government.
Eligibility
Criteria 1, Weightage: 15%
Total number of Public buildings in the State* 
Total Number of Public buildings*  identified for the creation of the barrier-free environment. 
Total number of public buildings out of the above made accessible from Accessible India Campaign funds. 
* Offices, Cinema Halls, theatres, Parks, Hospitals, Museums, Police Stations, tourist places, Monuments, Educational Institutes, Banks, Post offices, ATMs, Commercial Complexes, Market places, Streets, Libraries, Courts etc.

Criteria 2, Weightage: 15%
Total number of cost estimates sent to the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities 
Total number of buildings for which funds have been given and utilized.  (financial year-wise details to be given  beginning 2015-16 onwards)

Criteria 3, Weightage: 30%
The total number of buildings retrofitted with the following details:
a) Accessible Parking with marking as per accessibility standards 
b) Accessible route connecting parking to alighting point 
c)  Tactile tiles/pavers from parking to the main accessible entrance and till rooms 
d) Accessible reception counter 
e) Accessible entrance/doors/corridors f) Ramps – wherever there are level differences or a lift is absent 
g) Accessible lift 
h) Signage (audio-visual) conspicuously placed 
i) Accessible toilet on each floor 
j) Accessible staircase (colour contrasting strip and Continuous handrails)

Criteria 4, Weightage: 20%
The total number of buildings made accessible from state funds. 
Other important initiatives are taken up to improve the accessibility of public buildings.

Criteria 5, Weightage: 20%
Screening Committee may devise any other assessment parameter which may facilitate short-listing of applicants 

Agencies Eligible to Make Nominations
Any State/UT/ Autonomous Body / PSU and nongovernmental organization registered under the Trust Act/Society Act/Section 8 of Company Act, 2013.
Application Process
Online
Call for Applications
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) shall intimate the opening of the National Awards Portal as well as the prescribed period for submission of applications through advertisement in the newspapers/website of the Department. Applications/nominations are invited through online mode only on the centralized portal of the Ministry of Home Affairs. (www.awards.gov.in) which is open (w.e.f. 15th June to 31st July).

Registration
Step 1: Visit the National Awards Portal. On the top right of the homepage, click "Register".
Step 2: You will be directed to the Registration Page. Fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a Red Asterisk). 
Step 3: Check the "Declaration" checkboxes provided at the bottom of the page. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Submit".You will receive the Login Credentials on your Registered Mobile Number.

Application
Step 1: Visit the National Awards Portal. On the top right of the homepage, click "Login".
Step 2: Login using credentials. From the list of awards, select "National Awards for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities", then click "Nominate / Apply Now".
Step 3: On the next page, fill in all the mandatory fields in the online application form, and then click "Submit".

Note 1: The Application should be in Hindi or English language only.

Calendar of Activities
1. Advertisement of National Awards/Opening of National Awards Portal: 1st May 
2. Last date of receipt of applications: 31st July 
3. Constitution of Screening Committees and National Selection Committees: 31st August 
4. Meetings of the Screening Committees: 30thSeptemebr
5. Meeting of the National Selection Committee: 15th October 
6. Verification of short-listed candidates: 15th October
7. Information/confirmation to awardees: 31st October 
8. Presentation of National Awards: 3rd December (International Day of Persons with Disabilities)
Documents Required
Certificate of Registration (showing the Year of Establishment)
Proof of Address (for communication)
Proofs reg. the Nature of work undertaken by the Institution
Special or Outstanding Achievements (Certificates/Appreciation letters) in the past 10 (ten) years in the field of the Category of the Award at a) International level; b) National Level; c) State level; d) District level; e) Organisation level
 Details of Awards or Honours received (Name of the Award; Conferring Agency; Year of Conferment), if any (attach citations), along with Justification for the Award
Any other Achievement for Consideration of the Award
