Thayi Bhagya Scheme(comprehensive Maternal Healthcare)
Karnataka

Details
The scheme has been designed so that women belonging to BPL families can avail totally cashless treatment in these private hospitals.
Under this scheme, the pregnant woman belonging to BPL family can avail delivery services free of cost in the registered private hospital near her house. She is not required to pay any charges right from the point of admission to discharge. The benefit is limited to the first two live deliveries.
The beneficiaries are identified through the ANC cards issued to them.
The scheme has been introduced in the six "C" category districts of Gulbarga, Bidar, Raichur, Koppal, Bijapur and Bagalkot and the backward district Chamarajanagar.

i. Shortage of specialist doctors, especially the gynecologists, anesthetists and pediatricians at Taluk hospitals and CHCs, The posts of these specialists are mostly vacant in Government Hospitals.
ii. Though there are very large number of government health care institutions in the state, the shortage of these specialists is a big draw back in providing proper maternal and child health care.
iii.There are considerable number of specialist doctors in urban private hospitals.
iv. By entering into Public-Private partnership with these hospitals, rural women can be provided with facilities for proper institutional deliveries.

The hospitals having requisite facilities will be registered under the programme with the approval of District Health Society. The Hospitals will then sign an MOU with the Department. Government Hospitals can also participate in this scheme.

Such registered hospitals will be paid Rs. 3.00 lakhs per 100 deliveries, which include normal delivery, complicated deliveries, caesarian, forceps deliveries etc. These hospitals will be paid 10% ie., Rs.30,000 advance on participation in the scheme. This is to encourage more and more private hospitals to participate in the programme.
The Government Hospitals will be paid Rs. 1.50 lakhs for every 100 deliveries, out of which 50,000 goes to the Health Care Committee and the remaining is shared among the Hospital doctors, nurses and staff as per Yeshaswini guidelines.

Benefits
The scheme provides benefits in the form of delivery services free of costs and others. 
Women belonging to BPL families can avail totally cashless treatment in theses private hospitals or can avail delivery services free of cost in the registered private hospital near her house.
Registered private hospital will be available near her house.
Candidate is not required to pay any charges right from the point of admission to discharge.
Free checkup and medicines will be provided.
Eligibility
The benefit is limited to the first two deliveries.
The candidate women must be residents of Karnataka government
The hospital should have minimum 10 inpatient beds.
Should have proper functional Operation Theater and Delivery room.
24 hrs availability of gynecologists, anesthetists and pediatricians.
Should have link with Blood banks.
The DHO has to identify such hospitals and invite them for partnership. Interested hospitals can sign the MOU.


Such registered hospitals will be paid Rs. 3.00 lakhs per 100 deliveries, which include normal delivery, complicated deliveries, caesarean, forceps deliveries etc. These hospitals will be paid 10% ie., Rs.30,000 advance on participation in the scheme. This is to encourage more and more private hospitals to participate in the program.
The Government Hospitals will be paid Rs. 1.50 lakhs for every 100 deliveries, out of which 50,000 goes to the Health Care Committee and the remaining is shared among the Hospital doctors, nurses and staff as per Yeshaswini guidelines.
Application Process
Offline
The pregnant women have to register their names with the Junior Female Health Assistant of the area.
The women will issue ANC card.
The beneficiaries are identified through the ANC cards issued to them.
Then candidates can avail benefits from nearer registered hospitals.

Candidate applicants can contact the Head office from where the scheme is operated.
Email: prs-hfw@karnataka.gov.in
Documents Required
Domicile certificate
BPL card or Ration card
Caste certificate
Aadhar Card
ANC registration number along with noting whether it is first or second delivery
