Vahli Dikri Yojana
Gujarat
Financial AssistanceGirl ChildGirl EducationGujarat
Details
Objectives 
To promote the education and empowerment of girl children in the state of Gujarat.
To reduce the financial burden on families with girl children.
To encourage families to celebrate the birth of girl children and reduce the prevalence of gender discrimination and female infanticide.
To improve the overall welfare of girl children in the state.

Target Beneficiary:
The target beneficiaries of the Vahli Dikri Yojana scheme are families with one or two girl children in the state of Gujarat.

Benefits
Benefits
The following benefit will be provided to the beneficiary under Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana 
Stages Amount
When a Girl enrolls in Class 1st Rs. 4,000/-
When a Girl enrolls in Class 9th Rs. 6,000/-
When Girl Pursue Higher Education or Getting Married Rs. 1,00,000/-
Eligibility
Eligibility 
This scheme is for the first two girl children of the family.
Applicant must belong to Gujarat state.
Applicant must have a bank account.
The annual income of the applicant’s family should not be more than Rs. 2 Lakh.
Girls born after 02-08-2019 are eligible to get financial assistance under Gujarat Vahli Dikri Yojana.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
Applicants can get the application form from the Anganwadi Centre/Gram Panchayat/ CDPO(ICDS) Office/District Women and child Officer office.
Fill out the application form and attach all the required documents with it.
Submit the Application Form along with the documents in the same office.
Application Forms and Documents will be scrutinized by the concerned officials.
The applicant will be informed through SMS about the eligibility or ineligibility.
Eligible Beneficiaries will get financial assistance in their bank account once their application is finally approved by the department office.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Domicile of Gujarat.
Aadhar Card.
Passport Size Photo.
Income Certificate.
Caste Certificate.
Birth Certificate of Child.
Bank Account Details.
