Scheme for Providing (Golden Jubilee) One Time Grant-In-Aid in Memory of Blessed Mother Tereza
Goa
DestituteDisabilityGrantMalnutritionNGOOrphanShelter
Details
"Scheme for Providing (Golden Jubilee) One Time Grant-In-Aid in Memory of Blessed Mother Tereza" by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa, came into force with effect from 1st April 2011. The scheme aims to protect and support the thousands of children living in slums and on the streets of Goa, also orphans and runaways escaping poverty, neglect or abuse. These children are often at great risk from malnutrition, illness and neglect. These children, along with aged, destitute and disabled people need a helping hand in health care, shelter, food, clothing, free medication, human trafficking, aids consciousness etc. It is a bounden duty of the government to provide these basic necessities to the underprivileged section of society.

Objectives
To provide support to underprivileged children, aged, destitute and disabled people.
To recognize and strengthen the sustainable efforts put in by the various reputed institutions in providing meaningful, safe, playful environment, food, shelter, health care etc. for the upliftment of weaker sections of the society and to give an impetus, encouragement 
and financial backing to them for their contribution in the field of the social sector.
To support the institutions in the implementation of their programmes.
To take care of all such types of underprivileged, downtrodden, neglected sections of society.

Benefits
An amount of ₹ 25,00,000 shall be sanctioned as a time grant to the selected institutions/NGOs as per clause (A).
The quantum of financial assistance to the eligible institutions under clauses (B) & (C) shall be as per the recommendation of the selection committee and the approval of the government.
Enhanced grants as per clause (C) shall be considered on a case-to-case basis. However, the total grants in each case under the scheme shall not be more than ₹ 1,00,00,000.
Eligibility
List of Eligible Institutions/NGOs

Clause (A)
1. Snehamandir, Ponda
2. Lokvishwas Pratishthan, Ponda
3. Sanjeevan, Ponda
4. Matruchhaya, Ponda
5. Kasturba Matoshri Trust, Panaji
6. Children’s Rights in Goa, Panaji
7. Sangat, Panaji
8. Jan Ugahi, Margao
9. Positive People, Panaji
10. Sethu, Panaji
11. Disha Charitable Trust, Panaji
12. Mother Teresa Sisters’, Panaji
13. Gujarati Samaj Educational Trust for Handicapped, Margao
14. Caritas, St Francis Xavier’s Academy, Old Goa
15. Daddy’s Home, Margao
16. Asha Deep, Vasco
17. Arz, Vasco
18. Chetana Charitable Trust, Curchorem
19. Navjot Rehabilitation, Thivim
20. Shanti Avedna Ashram, Loutolim
21. Nitya Seva Niketan, Rivona
22. Keshav Seva Sadhana’s Narayan Zantye School for special children
23. Caritas Asro, Thivim
24. Jyot Society, Margao
25. Mother Mary Heaven, Calangute
26. Divine Providence, Benaulim
27. Indian Red Cross Society, Panaji
28. Lar Santa Margarita, Diwar
29. Lar de Santa Teresa, Margao

Clause (B)
Other Institutions/NGOs not covered in the list above shall be eligible for the grant subject to the following conditions:
1. The Institution/NGOs shall submit applications for the grants under the scheme in the prescribed proforma.
2. The Institution/NGOs should be registered with the state government registration authorities.
3. The Institution/NGOs should be in existence for a minimum period of 05 years. 
4. Should have been providing humanitarian service to a minimum of 25 inmates (Old, sick, underprivileged children etc.) for the last 5 years. 
5. The Institution/NGOs should have infrastructure facilities of spacious accommodation of a minimum area of 50 sq. mts. with proper ventilation, toilet, kitchen etc.
6. The Institution/NGOs should furnish a copy of the constitution/bye laws of the institution.

Clause (C)
The aforementioned Institutions/NGOs are eligible for enhanced grants considered on specific proposals on case to case basis subject to the following conditions:
1. The Institutions/NGOs shall submit a specific proposal for sanction of additional grants supported by proper documentation. 
2. The proposal shall be restricted to the area of their operations as per the approved constitution/bye laws of the institution. 
3. The proposals shall be specifically towards activities related to the upliftment of underprivileged children, sick, aged, disabled, destitute etc.
4. The total grants under the scheme shall however be not more than ₹ 1,00,00,000.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested Institution/NGO should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ADC, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404642, Email: adc-dac.goa@nic.in
Documents Required
Proof of Registration with the State Government registration authorities.
Proof of Existence for a minimum of 5 years.
Proof of Humanitarian Service to a minimum of 25 inmates (old, sick, underprivileged children etc.).
Details of Infrastructure Facilities of spacious accommodation of a minimum area of 50 Sq. mts. with proper ventilation, toilet, kitchen, etc.
A copy of the constitution/bylaws.
