Death Benefit Scheme (APB&OCWWB)
Arunachal Pradesh
Construction WorkerDeathFinancial AssistanceLabour
Details
The scheme “Death Benefit Scheme” was started by the Department of Labour and Employment, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh for registered workers of the Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB). The state government has proposed and implemented this scheme through the APB&OCWWB for those families who suffer due to economic loss caused by the demise of the bread earner of the house and have registered their names in the Labour Welfare Board.
Objective:
To mitigate such economic loss, the govt. has introduced the death benefit scheme for normal death and death due to accidents.

Benefits
Cash assistance of ₹50,000/- provided to the nominee of the registered worker, in case of normal death.
Cash assistance of ₹1,00,000/- provided to the nominee of the registered worker, only in case of accidental death.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. The applicant should be a family member of a deceased worker who was employed in the Building and Other Construction works.
3. The deceased worker should be registered with Labour Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
4. The deceased worker should have an active membership at the time of death.
5. The name of the nominee/ dependent should be recorded on his/her registration card before death.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest registered office of the District/Sub-Division, APB&OCWWB along with all the relevant documents.
Step 02: Application in the prescribed format may be received from the concerned office
Step 03: The applicant needs to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents. Thereafter, the applicant may submit the application form to the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card, etc.
Xerox copy as well as original copy of registration card of the worker
Death Certificate
Bank Account number/ front page of the passbook
Passport size photographs
Address proof
