Shahu, Phule, Ambedkar Award
Maharashtra
AwardFinancial AssistanceSocial Welfare
Details
The "Shahu, Phule, Ambedkar Award" is an award by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. The award is given to the Registered Organizations working in various fields of Social Justice, doing Social Reforms in the state, and taking Maharashtra forward as a social reformist State. Only the Institutions/Organizations located within the State of Maharashtra can apply to this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra.

Benefits
The institute will be given ₹15,00,000/- as a prize along with a Memento and a Silver Krol Citation.
A total of 7 awards will be given for 7 regions. 
Eligibility
The Institute/Organization should be located within the state of Maharashtra.
The Institute/Organization should have done work in the field of Social Justice in the state of Maharashtra.
The period of the Social Service should be 15 years & above in the state of Maharashtra.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Commissioner, District Social Welfare Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.
Documents Required
Proof of Registration as a Organization/Institute issued by the authorized officer by the Govt. of Maharashtra.
Proof of Social Service for a period of 15 years and above.
Character Verification Report in favor of the President and the Secretary of the organization issued by the Superintendent of Police or the Police Commissioner.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
