One Time Grant For Media Personality
Assam
Financial AssistanceJournalistSocial Welfare
Details
"One Time Grant for Media Personality" is a Financial Assistance Scheme by the Information and Public Relations Department, Govt. of Assam. Through this scheme, the govt. provides a one-time grant to twenty journalists @ ₹ 50,000/- each every year so that they can engage in their varied performances in a more productive and efficient manner. The assistance is intended to support journalists in their pursuit of outstanding achievements and also to support them in their time of need. The objectives of this scheme is to uphold the dignity of media persons and to inspire and motivate the media persons to excel in the field of journalism.

Benefits
A one-time grant of ₹ 5,00,000/- to 20 Journalists in a year.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of Assam.
The applicant must be an accredited/recognized journalist of Assam.
The scheme is open to all mainstream media journalists having accredited/recognized cards of DIPR, Assam including freelancers from Print, Electronic, and News Agencies.
The minimum age for journalists should be 40 years. There is no upper limit.
The applicant must have at least fifteen years of experience in the field of Journalism.
The applicant should not have been convicted for any criminal offense or punished by any Court of Law or reprimanded by the Press Council of India for misconduct or violation of ethics of journalism or for any other similar reason.
The Annual income of the applicant should be less than ₹ 5,00,000.

NOTE: Canvasing for the grant in any form will disqualify the candidature. Anybody found canvassing in his/her favor shall be debarred from consideration for a grant.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant must fill in all the mandatory fields in the prescribed application form, and attach the required (self-attested) documents.

Step 2: Three sets of duly filled-up application forms (Schedule-I) will need to be submitted by each applicant. The envelope should be super-scribed as ‘Application for One Time Grant for Media Personality”.

Step 3: The application should reach the Office of the Directorate of Information & Public Relations, Last Gate, Dispur, Guwahati-781006 within the fixed date which will be published through advertisement.

NOTE 1: An incomplete application or an application without the required components mentioned in the application guidelines will not be considered.

NOTE 2: Failure to enclose any of the below-mentioned documents/items or furnishing of any invalid document may result in the rejection of the application.
Documents Required
A brief Curriculum Vitae of the applicant.
Education and employment history.
Self-attested testimonials/certificates in support of educational and professional qualifications.
Recent passport-size colored photographs, one each to be pasted in two application forms.
Reporters/ journalists in print and electronic media must provide copies of his/her 3 nos. of research-based news/reporting/features /videos/documentaries. They must have a minimum of 3 nos. of ‘success stories’ of Government schemes published/broadcast in their respective media outlet during the last 12 months. All samples should be submitted in 2 copies each along with two sets of applications.
Photojournalists/ video journalists in print and electronic media must submit a minimum of 3 nos. of still photographs or videos of precise or extensive presentation/ coverage of certain subject matters/ events/ happenings during the last 12 months which are effective and beneficial for the people in terms of development, unity, and integrity. All samples should be submitted in 2 copies each along with two sets of applications.
Photocopy of the Identity Card issued by the Media House and DIPR, Assam.
In the case of freelancers, he/she will have to provide supporting documents as proof of his/her articles/news/reports, etc. published in newspapers/ journals, etc.
The Income Certificate in original duly issued by the concerned Circle Officer should be enclosed along with the application.
