Travel Grant Scheme For College Teachers / College Librarians / Vice Chancellors / Commission Members And UGC Officers
Ministry of Education
ConferenceGrantInternationalLibrarianTeacherTravel
Details
This scheme provides financial assistance to permanent teachers and librarians of colleges and vice-chancellors of state universities, deemed to be universities and central universities to present research papers at international conferences abroad. This facility is also available to the permanent teachers of Institutions of National Importance with a cap of 10% of the total approved cases annually. The Commission members and UGC Officers at the level of EO/US and above are also eligible to apply under this scheme.

Benefits
Financial Assistance for the total admissible expenditure such as travel, registration fee, per diem allowance and visa fee.
NOTE: The entire amount due to the candidate is disbursed in one instalment after the conference is over and relevant documents are submitted by the applicant.
Eligibility
The applicant should qualify as one of the following - 
Permanent Teacher of College, College Librarian enlisted in 2 (f) and 12 B of the UGC Act.
Vice Chancellor of State University / Deemed to be University / Central University recognized under sections 2(f) and 12(B) of the UGC Act.
UGC Member, UGC Officer and SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) / Physically Handicapped Teacher.
Permanent Teacher of an Institution of National Importance.
Commission Member or UGC Officer at the level of EO/US and above.
Application Process
Offline
The application in the prescribed application form along with all necessary enclosures should be sent to: 
Joint Secretary (Travel Grant), University Grants Commission, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi- 110002 

NOTE 1: The application should be sent at least two months prior to the commencement of the conference.
NOTE 2: Incomplete applications will not be considered and no correspondence will be entertained in this regard.
NOTE 3: The submission of a proposal does not automatically mean that it has the approval of the UGC.
Documents Required
While applying - 
A copy of the paper
An acceptance letter from the organizers of the Conference
The full text of the paper proposed to be presented at the Conference.
If the paper is co-authored, then a no-objection certificate(s) from the author(s) may be attached to the application. 
In case of two or more applications for the same paper(s), only one application will be considered.

While submission of the Claim - 
A statement of account giving full details of expenditure incurred on various items viz., travel, airport tax, registration fee, visa fee and daily allowance may be filled in Appendix-II 
A utilization certificate in the prescribed format (Appendix III) from the college/university auditor/chartered accountant for the total expenditure incurred on the visit.
The details of assistance received or facilities provided by the organisers of the conference or any other similar Indian/foreign agency. 
The amount made available by the College/University/State Government and other sources. 
The amount payable for each item by the UGC as per the terms and conditions. 
A brief note on the participation in the conference. 
Certificate of participation in the conference. 
The conversion rate of the US dollar into Indian currency. (From any bank or other financial institution) 
Original cash memo/Receipt may be enclosed with the claim. If the photocopies are to the submitted then this should be signed by the applicant.
Details of the Bank Account of the Principal/Dean/Director may be sent with the claim on the mandate form (Appendix IV). 

NOTE 1: Paging may be done in all the enclosures attached to the claim bill. 
NOTE 2: No overwriting/correction may be made in the claim bill & utilization certificate. 
