Rajiv Gandhi Family Insurance Scheme
Haryana
Accidental DeathFamilyFinancial AssistanceInsurancePermanent Disability
Details
The scheme “Rajiv Gandhi Family Insurance Scheme” was launched by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Haryana on 1st April 2006. Under this scheme, compensation is given in case of accidental death/permanent disability in the age group of 18-60 years, who is a resident of Haryana and whose name appears in the electoral roll or holds a ration card issued by the competent authority and Income taxpayers and government employees are not. The scheme has been amended and implemented on 30th August 2011 and accordingly, the compensation amount will not be given to the person having an income of more than ₹2.50 Lakh per annum.

Benefits
The financial assistance/compensation will be given to eligible beneficiaries as under:
Accidental Death/Permanent Disability ₹1.00 Lakh
Loss of two limbs, two eyes, one limb, and one eye ₹50,000/-
Loss of one eye or one limb ₹25,000/-
Eligibility
The applicant should be only eligible in case of Accidental Death/ Permanent disability, or total/partial disability.
Under this scheme, compensation is given in case of accidental death/permanent disability in the age group of 18-60 years.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The name of the applicant should appear in the Voter’s list or should be a holder of the Ration Card
The annual family income should not exceed ₹2.5 lacs.
The applicant must not be a Government or Semi-Government employee.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the office of the Social Welfare Department (DSWO) in his/her Block/District and collect the application form. The application form can also be downloaded from the Official Website.
Step 02: The applicant should fill out the application form and attach all the essential documents.
Step 03: After filling out the application form, the applicant needs to get attested to the form from the concerned authority mentioned in the application form.
Step 04: Then the application form has to be submitted to the office of the Social Welfare Department (DSWO) of your Block/District.
Step 05: After successful verification, the applicant may get the benefits of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof
Proof of age
Residence Proof
A copy of Ration Card
A copy of FIR
A copy of the Postmortem report
Disability certificate
Income certificate
