Goa State Cultural Award for Institution
Goa
ArtistAwardCultureFinancial AssistanceInstitution
Details
The scheme "Goa State Cultural Award for Institution" by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa is designed to recognize, promote and appreciate the contribution of the institution in the field of Art and culture. This will give a tremendous boost to cultural institutions in Goa, which in turn will give encouragement to new talents.

Objectives
To recognize, promote and appreciate the institution par excellence as the best Cultural Institution of Goa. 
To give a boost to the cultural institutions, which in turn will also encourage the other institutions in the State to promote and encourage cultural talents towards an extraordinary creative output. 
To create and develop a cultural Environment in the state. 
To felicitate the institution par excellence for its achievements. 

Benefits
A Memento and a Financial Purse to the extent of ₹ 3,00,000.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Goan institution (or institution working for Goan artists) working in the field of Art and culture. 
The institution should have completed 15 years.
The institution should have given extraordinary contributions to the field of Art and culture.
The institution should have a properly constituted managing body with its powers and duties clearly defined in its constitution.
The institution should have a good reputation in the local community.
The cultural institutions that are financed by the Central Government Corporations, and Municipalities are also eligible.

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Preference will be given to the institutions involved in Cultural Education i.e. imparting Training in Music, Dance, Drama, Fine Arts etc.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma 
o
f 
the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACO-III, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404606, E-mail: aco6-dac.goa@nic.in.

Application Deadline
Within 30 days* from the date of advertisement in the Newspaper. 
Documents Required
Recommendation Letter From Institution/ Individual. 
Registration Certificate of Institution. 
Certificates if Any. 
Souvenir 
Bank Details – Passbook Copy. 
