Reimbursement of Stamp Duty and Registration Charges
Tamil Nadu
BusinessEnterpriseMSMEReimbursement
Details
The scheme "Reimbursement of Stamp Duty and Registration Charges" by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, is introduced with the objective of reducing the stamp duty and registration charges incurred by MSEs investing in backward blocks, i.e. the charges paid to the Registration department on the purchase of land meant for industrial use.

Benefits
50% reimbursement of stamp duty and Registration charges paid to the Registration department on the purchase of land meant for industrial use.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a manufacturing enterprise (micro or small scale), set up in the declared backward blocks of the state of Tamil Nadu.
This incentive is admissible to eligible enterprises on the land area up to five times the plinth area of the factory building constructed.
However, in respect of enterprises where the open land requirements would be large, due to the peculiar nature of the industry, the sanctioning Authority may consider allowing land in excess of five times the plinth area on case to case basis.

Know Your Eligibility for this Scheme here
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu. In the top ribbon, click "Login / Registration".
In the registration form, fill in the mandatory details accurately, Name, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Number, Email ID, and Mobile Number. Create a new password. The password must contain a minimum of 8 characters, 1 Upper Case Letter, 1 Lower Case Letter, and 1 Numeric Field.
Fill in the captcha code, and click "Register".

Step 2: Login
Visit the Login Page and click "Login", and then fill in the credentials received on your registered Email ID and the registered Mobile Number.

Step 3: Form Filling
After successfully logging in, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click on the concerned scheme from the dropdown.
On the next page, hover over "Apply Online" in the top ribbon, and then click on "New Application" from the dropdown.
Fill in all the mandatory fields of the Application Form. Carefully review all the information provided, acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy, and then click "Proceed".
Note down the reference number appearing on the screen and then click "Close".

Step 4: Upload Documents
Now, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click "Upload Documents" from the dropdown.
On the next page, provide the Application ID and click "Submit".
On the next page, upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size.
After uploading the documents, click "View" to verify the documents uploaded for correctness.

Step 5: Submission
Fill in all the checkboxes appearing at the bottom of the screen and then click "Submit Application".
The message regarding the submission of the online application to GM/DIC / RJD will be received on your mobile phone.

(Optional) Step 6: Track Application Status
You can check the status of your application here. The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.

Time Limit for Filing Application
The applicant enterprises should apply for this incentive within 6 months from the date of commencement of commercial production.
Documents Required
Copy of UDYAM Registration Certificate.
Copy of Registered Land Sale deed documents with receipt from Registrar regarding the payment of Stamp Duty/Registration Charges.
Copy of plan Approvals from the local body / Industrial Estate Authorities along with site plan.
*The file type should be PDF (.pdf). The file size should be less than 200 kb.
