Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra Scheme 2016
Haryana
Financial AssistanceGurudwaraPilgrimsTourismYatra
Details
The scheme “Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra Scheme 2016” was launched by the Tourism Department, Government of Haryana on 12th July 2016. The government of Haryana launched the scheme for Sri Hazoor Sahib Gurudwara (Nanded Sahib), Sri Nankana Sahib, Sri Hemkunt Sahib, and Sri Patna Sahib to provide financial assistance to the pilgrims of the State of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance shall be provided to a maximum of 50 (fifty) numbers of pilgrims who are residents of Haryana and have completed the “Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra” through the State Government/Centre Government/Society. This scheme will be commenced w.e.f. 1st April 2016 and financial assistance will be provided to those applicants who complete the Yatra after this date.

Benefits
The financial assistance will be provided up to the extent of ₹6,000/- or 50% of the actual expenditure per person, whichever is less.
The financial assistance shall be provided to a maximum of 50 (fifty) numbers of pilgrims.
Eligibility
The applicant/pilgrim should be a permanent resident of the Haryana State.
The applicant/pilgrim should complete the Yatra through the State Govt./Central Govt./Society and the completion certificate in this regard must be submitted by the State/Central Govt./Society.
Financial assistance shall be given only once to a pilgrim.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: A pilgrim who has completed the “Swaran Jayanti Guru Darshan Yatra” shall submit the application 
within two months after completion of the Yatra through the State/Central Govt./Society.
Step 02: The application form in the prescribed format (Annexure “A”) shall be required to be submitted to the Director of the Tourism Department, Haryana along with all the relevant documents.
Step 03: After scrutiny of the documents received from the State/Central Govt./Society the Director of Tourism Department, Haryana shall submit the same within 15 (fifteen) days to the Administrative Secretary Government of Haryana, Tourism Department for approval.
Step 04: Thereafter, the requisite sanction shall be issued for payment for financial assistance through a Demand Draft.
Documents Required
Identity proof
Passport size photographs
Attested Copy of the Permanent Residential Certificate (Domicile) of Haryana.
Attested Copy of the Yatra Completion Certificate from the State Govt./Central Govt./Society.
Attested copy of required Visa and Passport, if required.
Declaration from the pilgrim that the applicant never claim this Financial Assistance earlier and would not claim it in the future.
