Scholarship To Scheduled Castes Students Studying In Government ITI’s
Haryana
ITIScheduled CasteScholarshipSkill DevelopmentStudents
Details
The scheme “Scholarship to Scheduled Castes Students Studying in Government ITI’s” was launched by the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes, Government of Haryana in the year 2017-18. This scheme is implemented through Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, Haryana. The funds will be provided by this department to Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, Haryana according to their requirement.
       The objective of the scheme is to promote the interest of skill development training in Scheduled Castes youths and to enable them for self-employment and get jobs in Private & Government Sectors. The scheme is 100% funded by the State Government of Haryana.

Benefits
1. The scholarship of ₹200/- per month will be given to the student of Scheduled Caste in each academic year.
2. Under the scheme, ₹15/- per month as tuition fee will be reimbursed.
Note 01: No scholarship will be given to failed students.
Note 02: The scholarship will be given in two installments in each academic year. The first installment (50% amount) will be given after taking admission to Government ITI’s and the second installment (Remaining 50% of the amount) will be given subject to fulfillment of attendance criteria for appearing in the examination.
Note 03: The payment of the scholarship will be made to students through their Aadhaar-linked bank account instead of cash payment.
Eligibility
The Scholarship will be given to all Scheduled Castes students who are studying in Government ITI's situated in Haryana State.
The students should belong to the Scheduled Castes of Haryana.
The student should be a resident of Haryana State.
Note: The students taking benefits of this scheme will not be eligible to get benefits under any other State/Central Scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: The eligible students should contact to their Head/Principal of ITI's in which they are studying and collect the application form for the scholarship.
Step 02: Fill in all necessary details in the application form.
Step 03: The completely filled application form along with all the necessary attachments should be submitted to concerned receiving authority in their institute.
Step 04: After successful verification, the students shall be eligible to get the benefits of the scheme.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card Copy
Applicant’s Photograph
Applicant's Signature
Income Certificate
Haryana Domicile Certificate
Caste certificate
10th Class Certificate
12th Class Certificate
Parivar Pehchaan Patra
Fee Receipt
Last Exam Passed Certificate (Except for 1st Year Students),
BPL Certificate (if applicable)
Father's Death Certificate (if applicable)
An affidavit that the student is not taking benefit of any other State/Central scheme.
