Internship Scheme By The Unique Identification Authority Of India (UIDAI)
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
Cyber LawInternshipLegalManagementStudent
Details
The Internship Scheme by the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) enables the students to gain adequate exposure to various Technology tracks and other units within UIDAI Headquarters, Technology Centre and Regional offices. It would be expected to work in the field of application development, legal domains (like cyber laws/IT act) & general management. For the “Interns” the exposure to the functioning of the UIDAI & the technologies applied shall be an add-on furthering their future career prospects in niche technology, legal domains, management and many other areas as the case may be.

Objective
To allow young academic talent to be associated with UIDAI’s work for mutual benefit.
The “Interns” shall have an opportunity to know about the UIDAI functioning. It will enable UIDAI to interact with young scholars and to get fresh ideas and study/research support from the field of academics. At the same time, it will provide an opportunity to young scholars to contribute in the UIDAI work and have an insight into the related technical domains, management fields or related legal aspects.

Period
The period of the Internship shall be at least six weeks but not exceeding 12 months. 
NOTE: Interns not completing the requisite period will not be issued any certificate.

Place of Internship
All the interns should work either at the Technology Centre, Bengaluru or Regional offices of UIDAI or UIDAI Headquarters or assigned from a remote location under the guidance of the Project Supervisor (not below the Director rank).

Benefits
Stipend (in ₹ per Month)

1. Technical
B.Tech. (Premises): 30,000; (Remote): 15,000
M.Tech. (Premises): 40,000; (Remote): 20,000
MBA (Premises): NA; MBA (Remote): NA
Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Premises): NA
Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Remote): NA
PhD (Premises): 50,000; PhD (Remote): 25,000

2. Professional
B.Tech. (Premises): NA; (Remote): NA
M.Tech. (Premises): NA; (Remote): NA
MBA (Premises): 40,000; MBA (Remote): 20,000
Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Premises): NA
Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Remote): NA
PhD (Premises): NA; PhD (Remote): NA

3. Non-Technical
B.Tech. (Premises): NA; (Remote): NA
M.Tech. (Premises): NA; (Remote): NA
MBA (Premises): NA; MBA (Remote): NA
UG in Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Premises): 20,000
PG in Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Premises): 30,000
UG in Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Remote): 10,000
PG in Other relevant fields like Economics and Law (Remote): 15,000
PhD (Premises): NA; PhD (Remote): NA

Logistic Support
The basic lodging facilities can be made available on a payment basis in UIDAI Technology Centre, only.
The intern may be given access to the office internet, which shall be at the sole discretion of the supervising officer and subject to compliance with the Information Security Policy of UIDAI.
NOTE 1: The Intern has to make his/her own accommodation arrangement during the internship in case of working from UIDAI premises. 
NOTE 2: They shall arrange their own transport to and from the office. 
NOTE 3: The Intern will not be given any Computer System/Laptop etc for carrying out his/her assignments during the internship. 
NOTE 4: The intern shall be required to bring his/her own Laptop for carrying out the work assigned to him/her.

Experience Certificate
The UIDAI will issue a certificate for the period of internship in UIDAI at the end of the internship subject to the completion of assigned work, duly recommended by the concerned reporting officer.
Eligibility
For Internship 
1.  The applicant should be a citizen of India.
2.  The applicant should be a bonafide student of any recognized University/ Institution within India or abroad.
3.  The applicant should fulfil ANY ONE of the following conditions:
        A)   The applicant should be studying in the 3rd / 4th year (Final or pre-final) in B.Tech / BE course of any discipline and secured a minimum of 60% marks (GPA avg of 6.0) in all prior semester examinations. 
        B)  The applicant should be a graduate student having completed/ appeared in the term-end exams of the 1st year/2nd semester of their post-graduate programme or pursuing research/ PhD and secured not less than 60% or equivalent marks in Graduation. 
        C)  The students who have appeared in the final exam or just completed Graduation/PG and waiting for admission to higher studies or job may also be considered for internship provided that they fulfil the following conditions - 
                 C1)  They have secured 60 % or more cumulative marks in all the years/semesters of their graduation/ post-graduation till the date of application. 
                 C2)  The period between the month of declaration of the result of the final exam and the desired month of the internship should not exceed six months.

For Fellowship
1.  The student must be registered for a PhD at an Indian institution. 
2.  These fellowships are for six to nine months (extendable to 12 months) on Computer Science (Including, but Not Limited to It Act and Cyber Laws Related to Data Privacy, Cyber Security, Digital Economy, Block Chain, Quantum Computing, Computer Vision, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Big Data Analytics) and on Public Policy and Management.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Interested and eligible students need to Email their duly filled and signed application form in the prescribed format, along with the required (self-attested) documents to webadmin-uidai@nic.in.
 
NOTE: Candidates applying for a 1-year Internship should apply within 6 months from the completion of the final exam.
Documents Required
For Internship - 
Original NOC from the Head of the Department/Principal, indicating that the student would not be registered for any course requiring his/her attendance in the class during the period of internship. 
NOTE 1: The Tech Centre / Regional office/division has to verify his/her eligibility from the original documents.
NOTE 2: If any discrepancy is found, the candidature of the candidate will be cancelled by the UIDAI.

Additional Documents Required in the Case of Fellowship - 
The recommendation letter must be from the PhD supervisor.
The application needs to be sponsored /forwarded by the Institution where the applicant is currently enrolled, in the prescribed format.

At the Completion of the Internship - 
A soft copy and hard copy of the project report on the work undertaken.
A “No Demand Certificate” in the prescribed format.
NOTE 1: The project report prepared for the sponsoring institution in which the intern is enrolled is required to be identical in all respects. 
