“RAKSHAK PURASKARS’’ Award
Goa
AwardCrimeGirlHarrassmentViolenceWomen
Details
The Directorate of Women and Child Development, Government of Goa, has instituted the “RAKSHAK PURASKARS” Award. The awards are being conferred from the year 2015 onwards and presented on Independence Day i.e. 15th August. The awards are conferred to two persons every year. The awards are conferred to the individuals who have shown exceptional courage, especially in adverse circumstances in coming to aid, protecting or helping beyond the call of duty and assisting in dealing with the victims of any type of violence, attack or harassment against women and girls at home, in the workplace and everywhere in the public domain and has shown their respect and dignity to women in society within the State of Goa. The Award aims to spread the message to encourage and motivate all to bestow respect and dignity to women in society in the State of Goa.

Benefits
The recipients of the awarded are given a scroll/citation and cash prize of ₹ 20,000/- each. 
Eligibility
The applicant should have shown exceptional courage, especially in adverse circumstances or otherwise in coming to aid, protecting or helping beyond the call of duty, the victims or in dealing with the victims of any type of violence, attack, or harassment against women and girls at home, in the workplace and everywhere in the public domain and has shown their respect and dignity to women in society in the State of Goa.
The applicant can be a person from any walk of life, whether they are Police Officers, Doctors, Lawyers, Public Prosecutors, Social Workers, Teachers, Tourist Guides, Lifeguards, Bus, Taxi or Auto Drivers, etc.
The applicant should have a resident of Goa for the last 05 yrs as of 1st January of the respective year OR has worked in the State for at least two years shall be considered.
The applicant should not be a recipient of any other award in the same field during the same year.
The applicant should be above 25 years of age as of 1st January of the respective year.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: In the prescribed format of the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2: Visit the Office of the Directorate of Women & Child Development (Old Education Building, 2nd Floor, 18th June Road, Panaji Goa 403001), and submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the copies of the required documents to the Concerned Officer.
Step 3: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgement of the successful submission of the application.

Helpdesk
For any clarifications regarding the application, the applicants may contact the Directorate on Phone No. 2235308/2426112 during office hours.
Documents Required
Passport Size Photograph (Duly Attested by a Gazetted Officer)
Proof of Identity.
Soft Copy of the Application (a CD in Word (.doc/.docx) Format).
A brief life sketch of the individual (including, age, qualification, etc) in the prescribed format as Annexure- A.
Press clippings/ Certificates/appreciation received, photographs, if any.
Residential Certificate.
Bank Details (Bank Account Number, Name of the Bank, Bank Branch and IFSC Code).
