ICMR-Junior Research Fellowship
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
FellowshipICMRJRFLife ScienceResearchSocial ScienceSRF
Details
ICMR-Junior Research Fellowship (ICMR-JRF) examination is the first step in the process of admission to the PhD/Research Programme through the council's support. ICMR holds a national-level examination for determining the eligibility of Indian National candidates for the award of Junior Research Fellowships (JRF) through the Indian Council of Medical Research. The award of Junior Research Fellowship to the successful eligible candidates will depend on their finding placement in a medical college/hospital/university / national laboratory/institution of higher learning and research as applicable. The award of JRF is made on a merit basis by holding an entrance examination after issuing a countrywide admission notice.
Scheme of Test:
The test will consist of one paper of 2 hours duration.
The paper will consist of 2 Sections. The Aptitude Section (Section A) will have 50 questions on (i) scientific phenomenon in everyday life; (ii) general knowledge in sciences; and (iii) common statistics. All these questions would be compulsory with each question carrying 1 mark. The subject Specific Section (Section B & C) would pertain to (B) Life Sciences and (C) Social Science. The candidate may attempt questions in either of the two areas. Each area of section B & C would have 100 questions and the candidate may attempt any 75 questions in the predesigned area of Section B or C. Candidates are required to indicate the option for Section B or C in the application form too.
Each question carries one mark. Negative marking @ 0.25 will be made for each of the wrong answers. The questions in both sections would appear in English only.
The final result will be based on an aggregate of 55 % marks obtained in both the sections for the General category and OBC and 50% for SC/ST and physically handicapped.
The test will be held in the following streams:
Aptitude test (common for all) (2) Life Sciences (3) Social Sciences.
Subjects covered under Life Sciences include microbiology, physiology, molecular biology, genetics, human nutrition, human biology, biotechnology, biochemistry, biophysics, immunology, pharmacology, zoology, environmental sciences, botany, public health veterinary science, and bioinformatics. Subjects covered under Social Sciences include psychology, sociology, home sciences, statistics, anthropology, social work, and health economics.
A total of 150 Fellowships would be awarded. 120 Fellowships would be awarded for work in the field of biomedical sciences with emphasis on Life Sciences (like microbiology, physiology, molecular biology, genetics, human biology, bioinformatics, biotechnology, biochemistry, biophysics, immunology, Pharmacology, zoology, environmental science, botany, veterinary sciences, bio-informatics, etc.). Thirty Fellowships would be awarded for work with an emphasis on Social sciences like psychology, sociology, home science, statistics, anthropology, social work, and Health Economics.
Two separate merit lists, one comprising the candidates qualifying for life sciences and the second for those candidates qualifying for social sciences, will be made on the basis of their performance in the above test.
The candidates selected for the JRF programme of ICMR would be permitted to enroll themselves in the Ph.D. programme of any University recognised by the UGC/MCI. However, the JRF programme would not have any connection with the Ph.D. programme. The validity of the fellowship awarded to a candidate will be six months.
Another 100 candidates would be selected for consideration for positions of JRF under various research schemes of ICMR (subject to fulfilling the conditions for appointment under the schemes) for the duration of that scheme. These JRFs would also be permitted to complete a Ph.D. while working in the scheme if enrolled. The validity of the result will be two years for placement in ICMR-funded projects.
SC/ST/OBC/Physically handicapped (PH) applicants will be given such special consideration as per policy guidelines.
Candidates qualifying for the award of JRF will receive a fellowship from ICMR.

Benefits
The Junior Research fellows will be paid a monthly stipend of ₹31,000/- for the 1st & 2nd year.
The Senior Research Fellow (SRF) (if upgraded after completion of two years of JRF) will be paid a monthly stipend of ₹ 35,000/- for the 3rd, 4th & 5th years.
There is an annual contingency grant of ₹20,000/-.
The tenure for the JRF will be two/three years. The duration of an SRF will be for a maximum of three years. However, the total duration is five years.
HRA & Medical Benefits:
All Research Fellows may be allowed hostel accommodation in the parent institute wherever available and those residing in a hostel provided by the parent institute OR a hostel by another University/Institute will not be eligible for HRA.
Medical benefits will be allowed to a Fellow as per the rules of the Institution where they are working. ICMR will not bear any financial burden in this regard.
Leave Salary and Other Service Benefits:
A Fellow will be eligible for casual leave & maternity leave as per Govt. rules.
Note 01: The Fellow will not be treated as an employee of the ICMR.
Note 02: The applicant should not draw any stipend or salary or be in receipt of any other type of financial assistance except leave salary during the fellowship. 
Eligibility
The candidate should have a Post Graduate degree (M.Sc./MA) in basic science or a Post-Graduate degree (M.Sc./MA) in a professional course with 55% marks for General/Other Backward Class (OBC) and 50% for SC/ST/Physically Handicapped (PH)/Visually Handicapped (VH).
The students having degrees like B. Tech/M. Tech in biomedical sciences, B. Pharma/M. Pharma or D. Pharma are not eligible.
The upper age limit is 28 years [upper age limit relaxable up to five years in case of candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC/PH/VH and female candidates, three years in the case of OBC category].
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The advertisement is published in leading English Newspapers of India usually during March/April and also on the official website.
Step 02: The eligible candidates can fill out the application forms on the official website after the official release of the notification.
Step 03: The entrance examination is usually held in the first/second week of July.
Step 04: The candidates will be selected on the basis of marks obtained in the examination.
Step 05: The final result will be based on an aggregate of 55 % marks obtained in both the sections for the General category and OBC and 50% for SC/ST and physically handicapped.
Step 06: The list of successful candidates will be available on the ICMR website. Selected candidates must join their respective Ph.D. courses on the prescribed date as indicated in their admission letter.
Note 01: Before applying, candidates are advised to go through the admission notice published in the advertisement in various Newspapers and the instructions given therein carefully.
Note 02: Incomplete applications will not be considered and no correspondence will be entertained.
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Passport size photographs
3. Educational qualification certificates
4. Proof of age
5. Caste certificate for SC/ST candidates
6. Medical certificate for persons with disability
7. Any other document, as required
