Infrastructure and Technology Support
Ministry Of Textiles
HandicraftInfrastructureMarketing And Sourcing HubTechnology Support
Details
The sub-scheme “Infrastructure and Technology Support” aims to develop world-class infrastructure in the country to support handicraft production, enhance product quality, and reduce costs to enable it to compete in the global market. For the development of the handicrafts sector and benefit of handicrafts artisans, various components like Urban Haat, Emporia, Marketing and Sourcing Hub, Handicraft Museum, Craft-Based Resource Centre, Common Facility Centre, Raw Material Depot, Crafts Village etc. 

The objective of this component is to setup a permanent marketing infrastructure in towns/ metropolitan cities to provide direct marketing facilities to the handicrafts artisans/handloom weavers. 

Benefits
Under Infrastructure and Technology Support – National Handicraft Development Programme are being implemented on a need basis on receipt of feasible and viable proposals from the eligible agencies as per the scheme guidelines throughout the country. 
Under this sub-scheme, concerted efforts are being made to enhance production, productivity, and efficiency and to increase the income and socio-economic status of artisans. 
Financial assistance and funding pattern:  
The financial ceiling for urban haat is maximum INR 800 lakh for each unit for 80 stalls.
40% of the admissible amount shall be borne by the O/o the DC(H) and DC(Hl) each and 20% will be contributed by the state implementing agency. 
Land will be provided by state govt and will be over and above the 20 % contribution by the implementing agency.  In case of NER, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh – 45 % of the admissible amount will be borne by the O/o the DC (HC) and DC (HL) each and 10% shall be contributed by the implementing agency. 
Assistance will also be given for strengthening/renovation of existing Urban Haats subject to a maximum financial limit of INR 250 lakhs (90% assistance will be borne by the Office of the DC (Handicrafts) & DC(Hl)and 10% by state.
Note- The financial assistance will be based on the number of stalls, land area & other deliverables in proportionate manner. The PAMC shall comprise DC (HC), ADC (HC), ADC(HL), representative of IFW and representative of State Implementing agency.
Eligibility
Eligible Local statutory bodies, Apex Cooperative Societies, and National level Apex Societies (registered under the Society Act/Trust Act, etc.)  
Producer Company supported by O/O DC Handicrafts.
 Only implementing agencies with a minimum audited annual turnover of Rs. 1.5 Cr in the last three consecutive years will be eligible for implementation of infrastructure projects. However, this provision shall not be applied in the case of Central/State or state government agencies as an Implementing Agency (IA).
Application Process
Online
For the Implementing Agencies:
The proposals in the prescribed proforma along with all the (self-attested) supporting documents in hard copy should reach the concerned Handicraft Service Center (HSC), O/o the DC (HC) in time.

NOTE 1: The proposal sent earlier without any invitation or received after the timeline/last date, mentioned above, will not be entertained.
NOTE 2: Incomplete proposals without the mandatory enclosures and proposals that are not clearly recommended and received after the due date will not be considered.
Documents Required
For Fresh Proposals:
Proposal in prescribed proforma.
Recommendation letter of Field office/Regional Office.
Valid Registration Certificate.
Article & Memorandum of Association.
Bye-Laws.
Three years Balance Sheet & audited statement of accounts. 
Annual Report of last Year.
Affidavit in respect of Non-Corrupt Practice and validity of Registration.
Land ownership document/ Lease agreement for the proposed project/Detailed Project Report.
Feasibility report of the project to be certified by a scheduled commercial bank.
Construction plan and cost estimate duly authenticated by Architect/ Chartered Engineer.
Third-party assessment report from a recognized Chartered Engineer/ technical valuer for equipment/ machines to be installed
Undertaking that balance of the total cost to be borne by the implementing agency, along with escalated cost, if any.
Any other documents mentioned in Proforma/ desired by the competent authority.

NOTE 1: All documents should be attested by Implementing Agency. 
NOTE 2: The implementing agency will be required to sign a Memorandum of understanding specifying quantified deliverables. 
 For Reimbursement Proposals:
Monthly Performance Report/ Performance cum Achievement Report (as applicable) with photographs.
Verification report (Gist of expenditure) with the mode of payment from concerned Asst. Director, Handicrafts Service Centre/Field formation
Utilization Certification in GFR 12A duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
An audited statement of accounts and statement of expenditure duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant with membership No. and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
An inspection report from the concerned AD of the field office.
Any other documents desired by the competent authority.

For Fresh Proposals as well as Reimbursement Proposals, the applicant is required to certify the following:
1. No financial assistance has been received from any other source for the same purpose.
2. The provisions of the scheme have been fully understood and we take responsibility for the successful completion of the project within the stipulated time.
3. All infrastructures are available with the organization to implement the project.
4. There is no duplication of efforts that takes place with existing schemes of other ministries.
5. The Organization is not involved in any corrupt practices and has not been black-listed by any central/state agencies.
6. No UC is pending in any scheme of the O/o DC (Handicrafts).
