National Food Security Mission NFSM
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
DemonstrationMilletsNutri CerealsPulsesRiceSeed DistributionSeed HubSeed ProductionWheat
Details
The core objective of the Mission is to bridge the yield gap in respect of these crops through dissemination of improved technologies and farm management practices. Under the programme, various incentives like production and distribution of seeds, supply of seed mini kits, Front Line/Cluster Demonstrations, improved farm implements, bio-pesticides, micronutrients, bio-fertilizers etc. are provided to the farmers. 

S. No. Component Benefit
1 Demonstration The incentives for demonstration in one ha area for sole crop (excluding coarse cereals) will Rs 9000/- and Rs. 15000/- for a cropping-system based demonstration.


For coarse cereals, the incentive for demonstration in one ha area will be Rs. 6000/-
2 Seed Distribution Assistance for purchase of seeds will be available to selected farmers for the area not exceeding 2 ha each in a crop season as per provisions in the DBT. The rate varies for each crop.

Benefits
The scheme targets to provide following benefits:
1) Enhance production and productivity of crops
2) Promotion and extension of improved technologies and seed varieties through Cluster Demonstration, Cluster Frontline Demonstration, and Frontline Demonstration
3) Assistance for quality / certified seeds production and distribution
4) Support for nutrient management and pest management
5) Provision of flexi component for Interventions covering farm implements/ machines, capacity building of farmers, water carrying pipes, post-harvest technologies like Dal Mill/de-stoning/ grading, etc.
Eligibility
All farmers can apply for the scheme.

Criteria for Identification of Areas and Beneficiaries
1) In accordance with the decision of the GoI regarding implementation of Special Component Plan (SCP) for Scheduled Castes and Tribal SubPlan (TSP) for Scheduled Tribes, 16% of the total allocation for SCP and 8% for TSP will be earmarked. However, States will be allowed to make allocation to SC/ST farmers proportionate to their population in the States/districts.
2) At least 33% allocation of the fund is to be made for small and marginal farmers.
3) At least 30% allocation of the fund is to be made for women farmers.
4) All the farmers are entitled to avail the assistance for various components of the Mission limited to 5 hectares in a season.

Criteria for selection of districts:
1) Districts with area more than 50,000 ha and yield below State average yield under NFSM-Rice and NFSM-Wheat have been selected.
2) All districts of north-eastern states (except Assam) with at least 5000 ha area under rice have been selected.
3) Districts with at least 15000 ha area under rice or wheat in hill states of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand have been selected.
4) All districts of 29 states have been included under NFSM pulses.
5) In case of coarse cereals (Maize and Barley), the districts covering 70% of the total coarse cereals area of the state have been selected.
6) All States growing Jowar, Bajra, Ragi and Small Millets will be covered under the programme of NFSM-Nutri-Cereals (Jowar, Bajra, Ragi and Small Millets).

For a Cluster Front Line Demonstration (CFLD) organised by ICAR, each cluster must be atleast 25 ha
For a Front Line Demonstration (FLD) organised by ICAR, each cluster must be atleast 1 ha
For a Demonstration organised by state government, each cluster must be atleast 100 ha (25 ha for Hilly and North East states)
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Identification of individual beneficiary in a transparent and time-bound manner. Gram Panchayat should be involved in selection of beneficiary farmers. Panchayati Raj Institutions will be actively involved in selection of beneficiary and selection of interventions under Local Initiatives in the identified districts.

Step 02: Funds for implementing the Mission's programme will be released to the State governments with the approval of the NFSM-EC.

Step 03: The State Governments will release the funds to the State Level Agency through PFMS/Treasury.

Step 04: The State Level Agency would make funds available to the District Level Agency in accordance with
approved programme of the district.

Step 05: District level agency would release the fund to the Implementing Agency/ beneficiary. 
Documents Required
1) Aadhaar number
2) Caste certificate (SC/ST)
3) Bank details
The specific documents for availing the benefits of the program may vary depending on the type of intervention and the state. It is recommended to consult with the relevant authorities for detailed information on documents to be submitted.
