Self-Employment Scheme For Dependents Of Prisoners
Kerala
BPLDependentFinancial AssistancePrisonerSelf-Employment
Details
The scheme “Self-Employment Scheme for Dependents of Prisoners” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. The scheme is intended to rehabilitate the dependents of the indigent convicts. It aims to assist/encourage resource less wives, unemployed and unmarried sons, daughters etc. This scheme mainly includes children if they are students and women having children. Under the scheme, financial assistance shall be given only once for the dependents of a prisoner for the purpose and dependents are eligible for the assistance only during the period of imprisonment of the convict.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the maximum amount of financial assistance to a family will be ₹30,000/- at a time.
Note: Financial assistance shall be given only once for the dependents of a prisoner for the purpose.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
The applicants should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
Families of such convicts who had undergone imprisonment for a period of 5 years or above are eligible for financial assistance.
The families are eligible for the assistance only during the period of imprisonment of the convict.
The financial assistance will be provided to those eligible persons who have not availed the amount for the same purpose previously.
Note 01: Priority must be given to dependents (Husband/Wife, Unemployed, and Unmarried Son/Daughter).
Note 02: Other category of dependents includes daughters who are widowed/Legally divorced/abandoned by husband, Father/Mother below 55 years of age.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Copy of Aadhaar card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Copy of Ration Card (Submit the page containing the name of the ration card holder and the page containing the family members together)
Certificate of Ward Member/Councillor
Project proposal of the proposed work/business 
Copy of Bank Passbook- bank account details
Affidavit of Jail Superintendent
Other documents, if any
Note: If the Name of the convict’s child has not been included in Ration card, then the applicant has to submit Village officer’s declaration statement specifying that the applicant is the daughter/son of the convict.
