Vocational Training Of Destitute Women And Adolescent Girls
Manipur
GirlSkillSocial WelfareTrainingWomen
Details
"Vocational Training of Destitute Women and Adolescent Girls" is a scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Manipur. In this scheme, a 6-months training is provided in the Trades such as Tailoring & Cutting, Embroidery, and Computer. The application form can be collected from the Welfare Training Institute, Takyel, or can be downloaded from the Department website www.socialwelfare.mn.gov.in. The completely filled and signed application forms should be submitted to the Office of Welfare Training Institute, Takyel. This is a State Sponsored Scheme and only the citizens who are domiciled in the State of Manipur can apply for this scheme. The application should be submitted through the respective District Social Welfare Officer.

Benefits
A 6-months training is provided in the Trades such as Tailoring & Cutting, Embroidery, and Computer.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a domicile of the state of Manipur.
The applicant should be a Destitute Woman or an Adolescent Girl.
The applicant should be in the 18 to 38 years age group.
The Minimum Educational qualification for Computer Course is 12th Pass.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The application form can be downloaded from the Department’s website www.socialwelfare.nic.in or collected from the District Social Welfare Offices, Office of CDPOs. The application forms are also available during MeeyamgiNumit at Chief Minister’s Darbar Hall.
Step 2: Fill in the mandatory fields of the Application Form, and attach the supporting (self-attested) documents and the passport-sized photograph.
Step 3: Submit the form to the Office of the District Social Welfare Officer concerned.
Step 4: The name of the selected beneficiaries will be made available on the Department's website or displayed on the notice board of the Directorate, Social Welfare/ District Social Welfare Offices.
Documents Required
Residential / Domicile Certificate of the state of Manipur.
Details of the Bank Account.
Aadhaar Card.
Passing Certificate / Marksheet of Class 12th.
Proof of Identity.
Proof of Age / Date of Birth.
Marriage Certificate (in the case of Destitute Woman).
