Krishak Bandhu Scheme
West Bengal
AgricultureDeathFarmerFinancial AssistanceIncome
Details
The scheme “Krishak Bandhu Scheme” is a flagship scheme of the government of West Bengal and was launched by the Department of Agriculture in 2019. The scheme caters to the farming community by means of assured continuous income and insurance coverage. Further, the scheme seeks to provide the farmers with financial assistance of ₹10000 per year (₹5000 per acre in two installments).
        The financial support under the Scheme is payable in two equal installments, first during Kharif and second during the Rabi season each year.
Scheme objective:
1. To support farmers financially during the pre-production stage by providing production input purchase assistance
2. To give income protection to farm families in case of a farmer’s untimely demise.
Scheme components:
There are two components of the scheme:
1. “Krishak Bandhu” (Assured Income) scheme
2. “Krishak Bandhu” ( Death Benefit) scheme

Benefits
1. “Krishak Bandhu” (Assured Income) scheme:
(a) An assured sum of ₹10,000/- per acre per year will be given to the farmers who have 1 acre or more cultivable land.
(b) An assured sum of ₹4,000/- per acre per year will be given to the farmers who have less than 1 acre of cultivable land.
(c) The financial support under the Scheme is payable in two equal installments, first during Kharif and second during the Rabi season each year.
2. “Krishak Bandhu” ( Death Benefit) scheme:
(a) In the event of the death of a farmer/recorded Bhagchasi (Sharecropper) in the age group of 18 - 60 years, the legal heirs of the deceased will be eligible for a one-time grant of ₹2,00,000/-(Rupees Two Lakh) only. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of West Bengal.
All farmers having cultivable land with RoR, Patta, or Forest Patta and recorded (in RoR) Bhagchasi (Share-cropper), are eligible for getting assistance under this scheme.
In the event of the death of any farmer or a recorded Bhagchasi (Share Cropper) in the age group of 18 – 60 years, the legal heir of the deceased will be eligible to get a one-time grant.
Note: The legal heir will be determined by the Block Development Officer (BDO) as per the set procedure.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Application Process: Krishak Bandhu (Assured Income) Scheme
Step 01: The farmer is to fill up and submit the application form in the Gram Panchayat (GP) where he has maximum land holding.
Step 02: The farmer has to submit photocopies of the relevant documents at the time of application and also produce the original for verification. 
Step 03: The Farmer whose application is accepted at the camp will be verified online using the Krishak Bandhu (KB) App (depending on the availability of internet connectivity) and the applicant will be issued an Acknowledgement Slip on the spot.
Step 04: In case digitization of physical applications is not possible at the Duare Sarkar camp, the same will be digitized at the office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) of the Block using the KB App and an Acknowledgement ID will be automatically generated for every applicant in the KB Portal.
Step 05: The ADA will verify the application details and land details.
Step 06: After checking, if the details are found to be correct, the ADA will approve the case and thereby the enrolment will get completed. If the details are incorrect, he will reject the application and file it. The applicant will get a system-generated SMS stating the reason for rejection.
Application Process: Krishak Bandhu (Death Benefit) Scheme
Step 01: Applicant can collect the application form from the Duare Sarkar camp. 
Step 02: Duly filled-up application in the prescribed form addressed to the Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) of the Block should be submitted along with relevant documents.
Step 03: The ADA of the block will scrutinize the application to satisfy himself about its genuineness and completeness. If found in order, the ADA will forward the application with all documents to the Assistant Director of Agriculture (Admn.) of the Subdivision.
Step 04: The ADA (Admn.) will sanction the application after necessary checks and send the case to the Director of Agriculture & EoS through the Deputy Director of Agriculture (Admn.) of that district for payment of the grant.
Step 05: The DAWB & EoS will issue instructions to the West Bengal State Co-operative Bank Ltd. (WBSCBL) to disburse the grant.
Step 06: The WBSCBL will transfer the approved amount of the grant to the respective claimants in their respective bank accounts through DBT.
Documents Required
Documents required for Krishak Bandhu (Assured Income) Scheme:
1. Latest RoR of Cultivable Land/ RoR recorded with Barga / Patta Record/ Forest Patta
2. Valid Voter ID card (mandatory)
3. Aadhaar Card (optional)
4. Bank pass book 1st page/ Cancelled Cheque
5. One passport-size recent photograph (original)
6. Valid mobile phone number
Documents required for Krishak Bandhu (Death Benefit) Scheme:
1. Photocopy of the Identity of the deceased farmer/recorded Bhagchasi (Voter Id/Aadhar card/Pan card/Passport)
2. Photocopy of the death certificate of the deceased farmer/recorded Bhagchasi
3. Eligible applicant’s certificate(s) from the BDO
4. ROR of the deceased farmer/recorded Bhagchasi
5. Self-declaration of the applicant in a specified format (available at the camp). In the case of juvenile applicants, his/her legal guardian’s declaration will also be required on the self-declaration form
