Scheme to Provide Grant in Aid to Cultural Organization (Maintenance/ Regular Grants)
Goa
ArtistCultureGrantReimbursementTalent
Details
"Scheme to Provide Grant in Aid to Cultural Organization (Maintenance/ Regular Grants)" by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa, aims to provide financial support to voluntary Cultural Organizations in order to promote cultural activities and to create and develop cultural talent in the State of Goa. 

Objectives
To create and develop cultural talent. 
To provide financial support to cultural organizations. 
To create and develop a cultural environment in the State of Goa. 
To purchase musical equipment.

Benefits
Grant-In-Aid in the form of reimbursement to the extent of 80% of the expenditure incurred by the institution for the last financial year, subject to the maximum ceiling given below - 

₹ 10,000/- for Group ‘H’, 
₹ 20,000/- for Group ‘G’
₹ 35,000/- for Group ‘F’
₹ 50,000/- for Group ‘E’
₹ 75,000/- for Group ‘D’
₹ 1,00,000 for Group ‘C’
₹ 2,00,000 for Group ‘B’
₹ 3,00,000 for Group ‘A’

NOTE 1: The institution shall bourne all the expenditure and conduct its activities from its own funds for the first year. 
NOTE 2: The applicant shall get the financial grant to the extent decided by the Department of Art & Culture based on the nature and scope of the cultural activities conducted by the institution.
Eligibility
Any Goan institution registered under the Society’s Registration Act, 1860 or under the Indian Trust Act.

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Preference will be given to the institutions involved in Cultural Education i.e. imparting training in music, dance, drama, fine art etc.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma 
of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director or to the ACO-II, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404623, Email: aco3-dac.goa@nic.in
Documents Required
Copy of ID proof of Contact person i.e. President/ Secretary/ Treasurer (Mandatory). 
Attested copy of Registration certificate /Renewal certificate. (Mandatory) 
Constitution/ Memorandum of the Society etc. (Mandatory) (submit in case of new institution or if any changes) 
Recommendation from local bodies regarding the existence of the institution (submit in case of new institution). 
List of equipment in possession. 
List of Managing Committee Members with phone nos. (mandatory) 
Report of activities, year-wise i.e. proposed and undertaken (submit details with dates of activities, Venue of programme, photographs, newspaper cutting etc.). 
Rent Valuation Certificate from PWD if any. 
ECS statement – Bank details (mandatory) (Enclose the cancelled cheque with the seal of the institution). 
Utilization Certificate of grant availed during last year duly signed by the Chartered Accountant and Office bearers (Mandatory).
Audited Statements of Accounts of last year duly certified by the Chartered Accountant and Office bearers - 
             a. Receipts & payment (mandatory) 
             b. Income & expenditure (mandatory) 
             c. Balance Sheet (mandatory) 
