Chief Ministergi Artistesinggi Tengbang (CMAT) – Scheme Of Festival Assistance For Participating In International & National Festival
Manipur
ArtistCultureFinancial Assistance
Details
The scheme "Chief Ministergi Artistesinggi Tengbang (CMAT) – Scheme of Festival Assistance for Participating in International & National Festival" is a scheme by the Dept. of Art and Culture, Govt. of Manipur. Through this scheme, the artists will be extended a sum of financial assistance to meet their travel costs and journey costs when they are invited to participate in International Festivals abroad with conditions that they have to bear international travel costs, visa fees, performance remuneration, etc.

Benefits
The expenditure will be reimbursed to the applicant through DBT after receipt of all bill / vouchers / tickets / Boarding Pass etc in original.

For International Festival:
1. Individual artiste (3 Nos.) once a year will be supported.
2. Group Artistes (3 Nos. of the registered cultural group) once a year will be supported.

For National Festival:
1. Individual artiste (3 Nos.) once a year will be supported.
2. Group Artistes (3 Nos. of the registered cultural group) once a year will be supported.
Eligibility
For International Festival Assistance:
The applicant should be a resident/domicile of the State of Manipur.
The applicant should be an Artist.
The individual artists or groups should have already given a performance/show in at least 2/3 of the National Festival recognized by the National Academies / Zonal Cultural Centres / Ministry of Culture, Government of India / Culture Department of State Government.
The individual artists or groups should have participated in 3/4 of the State Level Programme.
The applicant individual or group should not have been sponsored wholly by any individual or institution for the same purpose.

For National Festival Assistance:
The applicant should be a resident/domicile of the State of Manipur.
The applicant should be an Artist.
The individual artists or groups should have already given a performance/show in at least 3/4 of recognized National Festivals.
The individual artists or groups should have participated in 3/4 State Level Programmes.
The applicant individual or group should not have been sponsored wholly by any individual or institution for the same purpose.

Method of Selection:
The selection of artists/groups will be done by a Screening / Selection Committee constituted by the Government. This Committee will also decide whether a festival/event is to be considered an International or National Festival.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should take print of the format of the application form provided in the scheme guidelines.
Step 2: The applicant should fill in all the mandatory fields and attach all the (self-attested) required documents.
Step 3: The duly filled-in application form should be submitted to the Directorate of Art & Culture, Government of Manipur office at Palace Compound, Imphal along with a cover letter addressed to the Director (Art & Culture) latest by a month before the travel schedule.
Documents Required
Residential/Domicile Certificate.
Invitation Letter in Original.
Ticket Copies (both Bus / Train / Air) with the list of Artistes.
Bank Account Detail (for Individual / Registered group).
Bio-Data of the individual artiste or activities report of the group with relevant supporting documents.
Receipt of all bills / vouchers / tickets / Boarding Pass etc in original.
