Madhugram Scheme Uttarakhand
Uttarakhand
Bee KeepingFinancial AssistanceStart-upTraining
Details
Details
The Uttarakhand government has started the Maun Palan Yojana with the aim of motivating the unemployed youth of the state for self-employment. Under this scheme, honey production units have to be established in the entire state.
This scheme is being run under the State Horticulture Mission of Uttarakhand. Under Maun Palan Uttarakhand, the state government will provide an 80% subsidy to youths who produce honey by beekeeping.
Under the Maun Palan Yojana Uttarakhand, the government will build honey villages at the panchayat level in various districts. Since this scheme has been made mainly for honey production in rural areas. That's why this scheme is also known as Madhu Gram Yojana or Madhu Vikas Yojana.
Maun Palan Scheme is a very ambitious scheme of Uttarakhand Government. Under this scheme, gram panchayats have been selected to establish Madhu Gram in 13 districts of Uttarakhand.
The government's intention behind launching this scheme is to reduce the rate of migration towards cities by providing employment in rural areas. Along with this, the state has to be made self-sufficient in terms of honey production.
Maun Palan Uttarakhand at present, there are about 7 thousand Maun Palan farmers in the entire state. Who are producing 2200 metric tonnes of honey in the state.
Now the new scheme will connect more and more unemployed youth with beekeeping and increase honey production. To make this scheme successful, the state government is going to give up to 80 percent subsidy to the Maun parents. So that more and more people can be connected with this scheme.

Benefits
Benefits
The assistance of Rs 350 per box.
50% of the aid amount payable in the distribution of Maun box Maun colonies.
100% financial assistance to beekeepers under beekeeping training.
Up to 80% subsidy is being provided under Madhu Gram Yojana Uttarakhand.
A maximum of 4 Maun boxes will be given per beneficiary under this scheme.
10 Maun house descendants will be provided at the rate of Rs.800 per person.
7 days of training will be provided for Uttarakhand beekeeping.
100% financial assistance will be given on training under silence.
Rs.350 per trainee will be spent on one week's training to the Maun parents and Rs.700 will be transferred directly to the bank account of the person doing the training under the remaining amount.
The total expenditure on training under this scheme will be Rs.1050 per trainee.
Eligibility
Applicants between the ages of 18 and 55 are eligible to apply.
One person from one family is eligible to apply.
Applicants already trained in Bee-keeping activity by KVIC/NABARD/KVK and other approved training centers are eligible to apply.
All those farmers involved in Beekeeping with their own land or having registered lease land are eligible to apply for this subsidy.
Application Process
Offline
Download the application form.
Fill out the required details.
Attach the required documents.
Submit it to the District Horticulture Office.
Documents Required
Application form
Residence proof of applicant (Ration card / Passport / Telephone bill / Bank passbook / Aadhaar card)
Identity proof of applicant (Voter ID / Passport / Aadhaar card / Driving licence)
Document proof of land ownership (Registered sale agreement, patta, Chitta)
Registered lease agreement (for leased land)
Project report (with the forecast of income for next 3 quarters showing expenditure and income)
Copy of Bank pass book with applicants account details
PAN card
Small and marginal farmer certificate
Caste certificate
Self-declaration
Aadhaar card
