NIELIT Internship Programme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
EducationElectronicsInternshipStudent
Details
The Internship Programme by the National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology (NIELIT) is an opportunity for a student to secure first-hand and practical work experience under the guidance of qualified and experienced Supervisors/Mentors. It also aims at active participation in the learning process through experimentation and putting into practice the knowledge acquired in the classrooms.

Duration
The minimum duration of the internship shall be as defined or prescribed in the curriculum and endorsed by the Sponsoring institution.
Duration can be a maximum of 6 months and shall not be extendable beyond 6 months in any case. 
An intern can avail internship only once with NIELIT.

Number of Interns
A maximum of five (05) interns shall be engaged for the S&T section at NIELIT Haridwar in a financial year.
A maximum of five (05) interns shall be engaged for non - the S&T section at NIELIT Haridwar in a financial year.

Confidentiality Protocol
The Intern shall follow the confidentiality protocol of NIELIT Haridwar and shall not reveal to any person or organization confidential information relating to NIELIT, its work and its policies.

Placement
Every batch of interns or individual interns, as the case may be, will have a Scientific/Technical Project Supervisor/Mentor to be appointed by the Wing/Section Head of NIELIT Haridwar. 
The internship is neither an employment nor an assurance of employment.

Attendance
A minimum of 80% attendance is required to be maintained in a month, failing which a Stipend and certificate of Internship shall not be given to the Intern.

Benefits
Stipend
For S&T section/wing interns: ₹ 5,000/- per month
For non-S&T section/wing interns: ₹ 3,000/- per month
The stipend shall be paid after the completion of the Internship on submission of a report duly accepted by NIELIT Haridwar.
The stipend shall be paid in non-cash mode only via Cheque/NEFT/RTGS etc.

Certificate
Certificates will be issued by NIELIT Haridwar to the interns on completion of the Internship and submission of the Report duly countersigned by the supervisor/mentor and accepted by the Wing/Section Head.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be studying in a recognized university in India/abroad.
The applicant should have secured at least 60% marks in the last degree or certificate examination.
The applicant should qualify as ANY ONE of the following - 
          a) Completed or pursuing a Diploma.
          b) Completed or pursuing Graduation/Bachelor’s education/Engineering/ etc. 
          c) Completed or pursuing an Integrated or Dual Degree/Master/Post Graduate degree/ etc.

NOTE: Merely possessing the minimum qualifications shall not guarantee an Internship at NIELIT. 

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Candidates having exposure in the area of intended internship with good academic background and having higher qualifications, based on need shall be given preference. 
Application Process
Offline
The interested and eligible students must send their applications, along with a brief writeup stating the reason for applying for the internship to:
Programme Coordinator
National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), Haridwar
2nd Floor, Government Polytechnic Building,
Plot No- 6C, Sector -11, Near Pentagon Mall,
SIDCUL, Haridwar, Uttarakhand- 249403
Office Nos: 01334-235617, 01334-235054
Mobile: +91-8273642140 / 8171710290
Email: prj.haridwar@nielit.gov.in 

NOTE 1: The applications should be sponsored/forwarded by the Sponsoring Institution where the applicant is currently enrolled or has recently passed out.

Selection Process
Step 1: The applications for the internship shall be accepted from the following:
Direct Applicant: The application needs to be endorsed/ recommended by the Sponsoring Institution.
Sponsoring Institution: Application with endorsement/ recommendation be considered.
Internship and Training Platforms: Candidates shortlisted from these platforms shall be considered for the selection process only on producing the recommendation/endorsement letter from the sponsoring institution. 
Step 2: The eligible applications received will be scrutinized by the Wing/Section Head to shortlist suitable candidates for the selection process on the basis of the candidate’s merit and NIELIT’s requirement. 

NOTE 1: Applications received with endorsement/recommendation by Sponsoring Institutions shall only be considered for the selection process. 
NOTE 2: NIELIT may conduct a Test/Personal or Interviews, as necessary for the selection of Interns. 
NOTE 3: No TA/DA shall be paid to candidates for attending the Test/Personal interview conducted by NIELIT Haridwar.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Passport size photograph
Passing Certificate / Degree / Marksheet of Graduation / Post Graduation
A Letter from the Supervisor / Head of the Department / Principal indicating their Status in the Institution
No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Institution
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address
Identity Card / Proof of Enrolment into the Institute
Details of the Bank Account (for the disbursement of stipend)
