Safai Karmakar Gambhir Bimari Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceHealth & WellnessMedical TreatmentSerious Illness
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakar Gambhir Bimari Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 28 April 2012. The main objective of the scheme to provide the financial assistance for medical treatment. 

Benefits
Registered unorganized workers who are suffering from serious illness will be provided medical assistance of ₹ 50,000/- for their treatment.
Serious diseases will include kidney, cancer, sickle cell anemia, heart disease, AIDS and paralysis.
Eligibility
To receive the benefits of this scheme, unorganized workers must be registered with the State Board for at least 90 days.
This scheme is open to unorganized workers between the ages of 18 and 60.
The unorganized worker must be registered as a beneficiary under Section 10 of the Act.
Each unorganized worker can only receive the benefits of this scheme once.
If the unorganized worker is receiving benefits under another parallel scheme of the State Government, they will not be eligible for the benefits of this scheme
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Registration Card.
Disease details by Vikas khand Adhikari / Surgeon / Chief medical officer/ Heath Officer.
A approximate expenses details by related Medical officer.
