Financial Assistance To Institutions/Societies Belonging To Scheduled Castes/Backward Classes
Haryana
Backward ClassConstruction Of BuildingFinancial AssistanceInstitutionScheduled CasteSociety
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Institutions/Societies Belonging to Scheduled Castes/Backward Classes” was launched by the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes, Government of Haryana. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the institutions/societies of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes to enable them to construct/complete/repair/renovate buildings that can be used for community social or educational purposes etc. of Scheduled Castes / Backward Classes and provide basic facilities and equipment in these buildings.
Definitions:
“Financial Assistance” means the amount sanctioned /released out of Government funds to supplement public efforts for development.
“Competent Authority” means the Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department, Haryana.
Purpose of Financial Assistance: In addition to the purposes mentioned in the object, the Financial Assistance may also be sanctioned for any one of the following purposes:-
For completion, repair, or construction of community building/institutions which used or are to be used for educational and social purposes.
For the construction of recreation centers/halls in the above-said buildings institutional for setting up of libraries in the institutions.
For purchase of T.V./listening sets, educational equipment, etc. for use in the institutions.
Priority for grant of funds will be given for completion/ repair/new construction in that order.

Benefits
Financial Assistance up to ₹2.00 lakhs may be sanctioned by the Minister in charge, Welfare of Scheduled Castes/Backward Classes.
The Chief Minister may sanction grants exceeding ₹2.00 lakhs in genuine cases.
In deserving cases, additional funds can also be sanctioned later on for construction/completion/ repair/ renovation of the infrastructure or for providing basic amenities in the building, or for any other purpose.
Note 01: Financial Assistance will be sanctioned only for the work to be executed within Haryana State.
Note 02: The grant will be utilized for the purpose for which it is sanctioned and not for any other purpose within one year of the date of receipt of the grant. Unspent balance, if any, should have to be returned to the competent authority. In case of default, the amount will be recovered as arrears of land revenue.
Note 03: The institutions shall incur the expenditure out of this grant in the most economical manner.
Note 04: Any institution/society found guilty of non-fulfillment of the conditions shall be debarred from being considered for release of Government grant for a minimum period of three years or more as may be decided by the competent authority.
Eligibility
Only those institutions/ societies of Scheduled Castes/ Backward classes registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, or the Indian Trust Act would be eligible for grant-in-aid.
The society/ institution should have at least 100 sq yards of its own land or allotted /donated to it by the Govt./ Panchayat/ Local Body/ any individual etc.
Second-time grants to the same institution will be given after only five years if all the UCs for the grants released earlier have been submitted to the District Welfare officer.
Note 01: The institution/ society will maintain separate accounts for the grant which shall be open for inspection by the Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department, Haryana/concerned District Welfare Officer, or any other officer deputed by the competent authority.
Note 02: Utilization certificate duly signed by the Head of the institution/ society dully verified by the Chartered Accountant will be furnished to the District Welfare Officer, who after spot inspection will forward the same to the Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes, Haryana with his comments for record.
Note 03: The guarantee will have to furnish an indemnity bond in the prescribed format (ANNEXURE – B) to the Govt. binding itself to fulfill all the conditions attached to the grant and to refund the amount of the grant already paid in the event of non-fulfillment of the aim to abide by the decision of the authority releasing grant-in-aid.
Application Process
Offline
Application Processes:
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the official website of the department and download the application form.
Step 02: The application form in the prescribed proforma (ANNEXURE-A) along with attested copies of the registration certificate of the institution, certificate of registration of land in the name of the concerned institution/society, or any other revenue record as proof of the same, activities of the society/ institution, with annual accounts/balance sheet, etc. site plan architectural drawing map of the building proposed to be constructed and tentative expenditure will also be attached with the application.
Step 03: The completely filled application form along with all the necessary attachments should be sent to the office of the District Welfare Office.
Post-Application Processes:
Step 01: The facts given by the institution/ society in the application will be verified by Concerned District Welfare Officer and the proposal along with the recommendation of the Deputy Commissioner concerned will be sent to the Director, of Welfare of Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes Department, Haryana for further necessary action.
Step 02: Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department Haryana will put the case for approval of the Social Welfare Minister.
Step 03: The amount will be sanctioned and drawn by the Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department, Haryana from Haryana Treasury, Chandigarh in the shape of an account payee Bank Draft.
Step 04:  The amount shall be disbursed to the institution/ society through the District Welfare officer concerned who will send the original receipt to the Directorate after payment. 
Documents Required
Attested copies of the registration certificate of the institution,
Certificate of registration of land in the name of the concerned institution/society or any other revenue record as proof of the same
Activities of the society/ institution, with annual accounts/balance sheet, etc.
Site plan architect drawing the map of the building proposed to be constructed and tentative expenditure\
Bank account details
PAN Card
