Jagananna Thodu
Andhra Pradesh
ArtisanFinancial AssistanceHandicraftSocial WelfareStreet Vendor
Details
Chiruvyaparulu engaged in vending on footpaths, selling vegetables in pushcarts, selling tiffin and food items on the roadside and pavements, etc. require daily working capital in the range of Rs 2000/- to 5000/- and they end up taking loans at a usurious interest rate ranging from ₹3/-, ₹4/- to ₹10/-. Often people who are engaged in traditional handicrafts like lacework, kalamkari work, Etikoppaka toys, Kondapalli toys, leather puppets, potters, Bobbili Veena, Brass Craft articles, etc. are also forced to take loans at such exorbitant rates and suffer financially. In order to ameliorate the financial hardship of the chiruvyaparulu and the people engaged in traditional handicrafts, the scheme JAGANANNA THODU is implemented by the Department of Grama Volunteers/ Ward volunteers & Village Secretariats / Ward Secretariats, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, to provide financial assistance up to ₹ 10,000/- at 0% (SUNNA VADDI) interest to such needy people, who can avail of this facility whenever required by them.

Benefits
Financial Assistance up to ₹ 10,000/- at 0% (SUNNA VADDI) interest to hawkers, street vendors, and artisans engaged in traditional handicrafts through banks.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant should be above 18 years of age.
The applicant should have a monthly income of less than ₹ 10,000/- in rural areas and less than ₹ 12,000/- in urban areas. 
The total land holding of the family of the applicant should be less than 3 acres of wetland or 10 acres of dry land or 10 acres of both wet and dry land together. 
The applicant should not be having a shop (built-up) that is greater than 5X5 sq. ft.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: On Citizen Schemes Portal landing page, the citizen can log in using the Aadhaar-tagged mobile OTP Authentication. In the “Citizen Scheme Application” page, citizens can select “JAGANANNA THODU” from the schemes dropdown and click on “Submit”. 

Step 2: Applications submitted are forwarded to Welfare and Education Assistant (WEA) /Ward Welfare and Development Secretary (WWDS). 

Step 3: The Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS conducts the field verification for each application, takes eKYC, makes a relevant recommendation, and forwards it to Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) / Municipal Commissioner (MC). 

Step 4: The MPDO/MC reviews the application and makes relevant recommendations and forwards the application to the Executive Directors of the Backward Classes Welfare Department (ED BC). 

Step 5: The Executive Director of the Backward Classes Corporations (ED BCs) verifies the application and makes relevant recommendations. 

Step 6: Based on recommendations made by the ED BCs and the applicants’ eligibility as mentioned in the Scheme Eligibility Calculator, the Social Audit lists namely the Provisional eligible list and Reverification list (with reasons for ineligibility) are published in all secretariats. 

Step 7: The citizens in the Reverification list can raise a grievance if they think that the reason mentioned for ineligibility is incorrect. 

Step 8: The final list of Eligible and Ineligible Beneficiaries is published in all secretariats. 

Step 9: The citizens mentioned in the Final Ineligible list can raise a grievance in Citizen Schemes Portal if he/she thinks that the reason for rejection is incorrect. 

Step 10: The scheme benefit is disbursed to all eligible beneficiaries through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). The acknowledgment of receipt of the payment by the beneficiary is done by the Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS using eKYC (Biometric Authentication).

Step 11: The beneficiaries can track the status of their payment on the Citizen Schemes Portal landing page by clicking on “Track Application Status”.
Documents Required
Domicile/Residential Certificate of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
Proof of Identity - Aadhar/Voter ID/ ID Card issued by the Government Organization.
Income Certificate.
BPL Certificate.
Proof of Land Holding (if applicable).
Business Location Details (Fixed or Wandering)
