Kala Gaurav Puraskar
Goa
ArtAwardCultureFinancial AssistanceLifetime Achievement
Details
"Kala Gaurav Puraskar" by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa, is presented to artists working in the field of Art and Culture who have given outstanding contributions in their respective fields of art. Such artists need to be felicitated and their substantial contribution needs to be recognized.

Objectives
To give State recognition to those artists who have given substantial contributions in the field of Art and Culture.
To felicitate the artists for their lifetime achievements in the field of Art and Culture.
To recognize and appreciate the age-old talent of the artists.

Benefits
The awardee shall be felicitated with a shawl, shrifal, a certificate of appreciation and a financial purse to the extent of ₹ 25,000/- per individual.
Every year maximum of 30 cases shall be considered as per the availability of funds.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an individual artist.
The applicant should be 60 years of age.
The applicant should have given a substantial contribution in his/her respective field of art.
The applicant should have contributed in his/her respective field of art in Goa for a minimum of 10 years out of his/her entire career as a practising artist.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of 
the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACO-III, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404606, E-mail: aco6-dac.goa@nic.in.

Application Deadline
Within 30 days* from the date of advertisement in the Newspaper. 
Documents Required
For the Nominator
ID Proof of Recommender*
Recommendation Letter*

For the Nominee
Passport Size Photo* 
Birth Proof* 
Biodata*
ID Proof*
Aadhar Card Linked With Bank A/C* 
Photos of Performances. 
Certificates of Performance (if Any)
