Telangana Grama Jyothi
Telangana

Details
The objective of the program is to improve the service delivery to the people in core sectors through the strengthening of the Gram Panchayats by bringing together the efforts of various independent departments. Grama Jyothi aims at synergistic the developmental activities of the departments by achieving functional and financial convergence through preparation of Gram Panchayat Developmental Plans. It seeks to exploit the enormous collective energy of the people by making them active partners in the development process, decision making and take good advantage of the social capital at the village level. The goal of Grama Jyothi is to bring in much desired accountability, transparency in the functioning of public institutions working at village level and make them responsive to the needs of the people.

       The various Functional Committees which are formed for Gram Panchayat Development Plan comprise of Water and Sanitation, Nutrition, Education, Security, Poverty Reduction, Resource Management, Agriculture and Infrastructure.

Benefits

    Better coordination of line departments through the planning process for convergence of major Schemes which work in Silos to bring in the synergy of Developmental efforts at GP Level.
    Preparation of GP development Plans.
    Bottom-up planning to be adopted for the optimal utilization of resources and avoid duplication.
    To improve the service delivery in core sectors.
    To make GP level Institutions more Accountable, Transparent and Responsive to People’s  Needs.
    To form Functional Committee sector wise for monitoring Goals.
    Generate GPDP Plans Reports.
    Data is readily available with Gram Panchayats to take up and execute Developmental Works with the concerned      Departments.
    Functional Committees can monitor various sectors such as Sanitation, Dump Yards, Community Sanitation Anganwadis, Community Sanitation Schools, School Children Details, l dropouts (6-14 Years), Orphans Rehabilitation, Grave Yards and information on very poor families.
    Integration with National Portal Planplus.
Eligibility
The Gram Panchayat people.
Application Process
Online
Have to contact with Gram Panchayat  office and as we as your Block office.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card.
Voter card.
A Valid Bank Account.
