Maharishi Balmiki Chatravriti Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
Financial AssistanceGirl ChildScholarshipSchool EducationStudent
Details
The scheme “Maharishi Balmiki Chatravriti Yojana” is a scholarship scheme by the Department of Education, Government of Himachal Pradesh. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to female students belonging to the Balmiki community. The Balmiki community, also known as Valmiki, is a socially and economically disadvantaged community in India. The main objective of this scheme is to promote education and empower students from economically weaker backgrounds. It recognizes the importance of education in uplifting individuals and communities and seeks to bridge the gap by providing financial support. The beneficiary receives ₹ 18,000 per annum for college-level studies and professional courses.

Benefits
Scholarship of ₹ 18,000 per annum.
Eligibility
1.      The applicant should be a permanent resident of Himachal Pradesh.
2.      The applicant should be a girl student.
3.      The applicant should belong to the Valmiki Family engaged in Unclean Occupation.
4.      The applicant should have been admitted to a matriculation course.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Go to  the Official Website of the National Scholarship Portal. and click “New Registration”. Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. The fields marked as * are mandatory. Fill in the details and click “Register”.  Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password. Type the Captcha and click “Login”. On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm. Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application.
Documents Required
1. Passport Size Photo.
2. Aadhaar Card (Unique Identification Number / Enrollment Identification Number).
3. Himachali Bonafide Certificate.
4. Previous Year(s) Result Card(s) from Matric onwards.
5. Latest Bank Statement of the Students Bank Account.
6. Certificate of Parent / Guardian engaged in Unclean Profession (Issued by an officer not below the rank of Tehsildar).
