Mukhyamantree Baal Aasheervaad Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
Financial AssistanceLearningScholarshipTraining
Details
Objective: 
Providing financial and educational support to children above 18 years of age (aftercare) as they transition from childcare institutions, aiming to reintegrate them into society successfully.
Providing financial assistance (sponsorship) to orphan children up to the age of 18 years who are living with their relatives or guardians.

Benefits
Assistance under the scheme will be of two types -
AfterCare
Internship - 
Internships, employment will be provided according to the qualification of the person. Rs. 5,000/- per month will be given during the internship period, which will be payable till the end of the internship period or one year, whichever is less, but in any case it will not be for a period of more than 01 year.

Vocational training - 
Vocational training in government institutions given under Polytechnic Diploma, ITI, Paramedical courses, Nursing, Hotel Management, Tourism, Pradhan Mantri/Chief Minister Skill Development etc. will be provided free of cost by the concerned department. Financial assistance of Rs. 5,000/- per month will be given during the vocational training period, which will be payable till the end of the vocational training period or two years, whichever is less, but in any case it will not be for a period of more than 02 years.

Technical Education, Medical Education and Ayush Education and Legal Education Assistance -
On the basis of entrance examinations in NEET, JEE or CLAT, care leavers who have taken admission to any government/non-government institutions will be given financial assistance of Rs.5,000 to Rs.8,000 per month during the study period and the fee fixed by the Fee Regulatory Commission will be borne by the state government till the course period.
Sponsorship
 Economic Assistance-
Each child found eligible under the scheme will be given an amount of Rs.4000/- per month, which will be deposited in the joint account of the child and relative or guardian, which will be for a minimum period of 01 year. In the event of no improvement in the economic prosperity of the child or the family, the period can be increased, but in any case the amount will not be payable after the maximum age of 18 years.

Medical Aid - Ayushman card of each child will be prepared by the health department for providing medical aid. District Program Officer, Women and Child Development Department will make necessary information including the list of children available to the Chief Medical and Health Officer for making Ayushman cards.
Eligibility
For After Care
Children residing in childcare institutions continuously for 05 years including the year of release date.
In the case of an orphan, abandoned child, an exemption will be given in the eligibility related to the period required for residence in the childcare institution.
If the child is not getting the benefit of adoption, foster care, but the child is rehabilitated in the child care institution and the period of adoption and foster care will also be counted in the eligibility period.
Financial assistance, internship, vocational training, and education will be given for the prescribed time period or till the age of 24 years, whichever is earlier.

For Sponsorship:
Children should be below 18 years of age.
The child's parents have died. 
The child should be living with their relative or guardian 
Relative/guardian should not come under eligibility under Mukhyamantri covid 19 Bal Seva Yojana, 
Application Process
Offline
After Care:
The superintendent/manager of each childcare institution will identify the children who have completed 17 years of age residing in the childcare institution and prepare an individual care plan for the identified children.
A separate list and database will be prepared of children going on internship in industrial institutions, getting vocational training and going to higher education.
The cases will be approved after examination by the committee formed under the scheme. This approval order will be issued to each beneficiary every year and the entire process for this will be done ahead of time. Sanction orders will be issued from the portal itself.

Sponsorship -
It will be the responsibility of the District Program Officer / District Child Protection Officer (Women and Child Development Department) to identify such families, who can be given the benefit of this scheme and contact them to fill the application. All the benefits will be given through the portal.
The home study report of the child registered in the portal of the scheme and the social investigation report of the family will be prepared by the District Child Protection Unit in the format prescribed in the Madhya Pradesh (Sponsorship) Guidelines, 2020.
After checking the report of home study and social investigation report of the family and other documents, a list of such children will be prepared and sent to the Child Welfare Committee.
According to the list received from the District Child Protection Officer, on the basis of investigation and evaluation of the social investigation report and other documents of the children, the Child Welfare Committee, following the procedure given in the Juvenile Justice Act and Rules, will declare the children as children in need of care and protection.
Under the scheme only those children who have been declared by the Child Welfare Committee as needy of care and protection will be given benefits. The list of all such identified children will be sent by the District Child Protection Officer along with the home study and social investigation report to the above committee for recommendation.
Examination of the prosperity of the family/child under the sponsorship scheme and the determination of continuation or termination of benefits under the scheme will be done by the committee constituted under the scheme. This approval order will be issued every year for each beneficiary and the entire process for this will be completed before time. Approval orders will be issued from the portal itself.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card.
Voter ID Card.
Birth certificate.
Death certificate of the parents of the child.
Child's school certificate i.e. mark sheet
