Mission on Integrated Development of Horticulture- NHM and HMNEH
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Green HousesHorticultureInfrastructureNurseriesPoly HousesPost-harvest
Details
MIDH covers horticulture items such as, fruits, vegetables, root & tuber crops, mushrooms, spices, flowers, aromatic plants, coconut, cashew, cocoa and bamboo. It is a Centrally-Sponsored Scheme covering all states and UTs. MIDH also provides technical advice and administrative support to State Governments/ State Horticulture Missions (SHMs) for the other horticulture related activities.
Area of Operation & Funding pattern:

S. No. Sub-scheme Area of Operation Funding pattern
1 National Horticulture Mission (NHM) All states and Union territories except NE and Himalayan states/UTs 60:40
2 Horticulture Mission for North-East & Himalayan States (HMNEH) NE and Himalayan states/UTs 90:10

National Horticulture Mission (NHM) was launched in the year 2005-06 and aims at the holistic development of the horticulture sector by ensuring forward and backward linkage through a cluster approach with the active participation of all stakeholders. Major interventions under NHM include, supply of quality planting material through establishment of nurseries and tissue culture units, production and productivity improvement programmes through area expansion and rejuvenation, technology promotion, technology dissemination, human resource development, creation of infrastructure for post harvest management and marketing in consonance with the comparative advantages of each State/region and their diverse agro-climatic conditions.

Horticulture Mission for North East and Himalayan States (HMNEH) aims to achieve overall development of Horticulture in NE and Himalayan states. The mission covers all NE States including Sikkim and three Himalayan states of Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.

Executive Committee of MIDH decides the annual outlay to various implementing agencies (SHMs and NLAs). Accordingly, implementing agencies submit an Annual Action Plan (AAP) for the approval supported with data/write up on outcome of past interventions and also covering the details of various interventions proposed to be taken up during the current financial year. While finalizing the AAPs, due attention is paid for earmarking specific targets for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and women beneficiaries. As an inbuilt provision under MIDH scheme, higher rates of subsidy have been envisaged for taking up activities like creation of infrastructure for post-harvest management and marketing of horticulture produce along with area expansion by beneficiaries in the North Eastern States, Himalayan States, Tribal Sub Plan areas, Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands.
The key objectives of the Mission are as follows:
• Promote holistic growth of horticulture sector, including bamboo and coconut through area based regionally differentiated strategies, which includes research, technology promotion, extension, post-harvest management, processing and marketing, in consonance with comparative advantage of each State/region and its diverse agro-climatic features
• Encourage aggregation of farmers into farmer groups like FIGs/FPOs and FPCs to bring economy of scale and scope.
• Enhance horticulture production, augment farmers, income and strengthen nutritional security;
• Improve productivity by way of quality germplasm, planting material and water use efficiency through Micro Irrigation.
• Support skill development and create employment generation opportunities for rural youth in horticulture and post-harvest management, especially in the cold chain sector.
Under MIDH, financial assistance is provided for following major interventions/activities:
• Setting up of nurseries, tissue culture units for production of quality seed and planting material.
• Area expansion i.e. Establishment of new orchards and gardens for fruits, vegetables, and flowers.
• Rejuvenation of unproductive, old, and senile orchards.
• Protected cultivation, i.e. poly-house, green-house, etc, to improve the productivity & grow off season high value vegetables and flowers.
• Organic farming and certification.
• Creation of water resources structures and watershed management.
• Beekeeping for pollination.
• Horticulture Mechanization.
• Creation of Post-Harvest Management and Marketing infrastructure.

Benefits
The scheme targets to provide following benefits:
1) Increase in productivity of crops through diversification, from traditional crops to plantations, orchards, vineyards, flowers, vegetable gardens and bamboo plantations; and extension of appropriate technology to farmers.
2) Promotion of R&D technologies for cultivation, production, post-harvest management and processing with special focus on cold chain infrastructure for extending the shelf life of perishables
3) Improvement in post harvest management, processing for value addition and marketing infrastructure.
Eligibility
All farmers / registered societies / state governments are eligible for the scheme
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Interested beneficiary can get in touch with District Horticulture Officer / Block Horticulture Officer to apply for the scheme.
 Step 02: District Horticulture Officer / Block Horticulture Officer will submit applicant’s details and project plan to State Horticulture Mission.

Step 03: State Horticulture Mission will finalise the entrepreneur’s proposals received from the District Horticulture Mission
 Step 04: Applicant’s proposal will be appraised based on MIDH’s guidelines
 Step 05: If approved, financial assistance will be released to beneficiary
Documents Required
1) Aadhaar number
2) Land documents
3) Caste certificate
4) Bank details
5) Photographs
The specific documents for availing the benefits of the program may vary depending on the type of intervention and the state. It is recommended to consult with the relevant authorities for detailed information on documents to be submitted.
