Yuvasree Prakalpa
West Bengal
EmploymentFinancial AssistanceJob SeekerPlacement
Details
'Yuvasree' (earlier named as "Yuva Utsaha Prakalpa") was launched by the Labour Department, Govt. of West Bengal, with effect from 1st October 2013. The objective of the scheme is to provide unemployment assistance to the enrolled jobseekers of the Employment Bank to enable them to upgrade their level of skill in order to make them employable or suitable for setting up of self-employment ventures.

Benefits
Cash Benefits: Subject to fulfillment of the aforesaid eligibility criteria an individual may receive unemployment assistance under the scheme ₹ 1500/- per month.
Job Seeking: By registering in Employment Bank, beneficiaries can search and apply for jobs per their skills.
Training Program: The recipient can upgrade his/her skill subsequently under any of the Skill Development programs of the state government / private training institutes and increase his/her employability. The training program shall include soft skills training, basic IT training, basic communication training, and other skill as per the need or the interest of the beneficiary.
Placement Support: Assistance in placing the candidate in a Government or Private organization.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of West Bengal.
The applicant must be unemployed.
The applicant should be enrolled with the Employment Bank as a ‘job seeker’.
The applicant should be class 8th pass and above.
The applicant should be between 18-45 years of age on the 1st day of April of the year in which he/she is considered under the scheme.
The applicant had not to availed financial assistance /loan under any state/central government sponsored Self-Employment scheme.
Only one member of a family is eligible to receive assistance under the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process : 
Applicant first visit the official website https://www.employmentbankwb.gov.in/
Click on "New Enrolment Job Seeker" on the portal and accept the "Terms and Condition".
On the new Enrolment page applicant need to full fill the following details 
Personal Information :
Contact Information :
Education Details
Language 
Physical Measurement 
Experience Details :
Additional Information :
Upload Photo / CV
After provide the above details, click on submit and applicant will  receive the Username and Password only after validation of his/he Enrolment by Employment Exchange.

Post-Registration Process:
After receiving the Username and Password, the applicant needs to visit their nearest Employment Exchange office along with the required documents ( Annexure -I on page no 7 & Annexure - II on page 8).   
Documents Required
Annexure I ( Application Form).
Annexure -II (Unemployment Certificate from a Group-A Officer).
Annexure - III ( Self-Declaration)
Proof of Age and Identification ( 10th Admit Card / 10th Certificate / Transfer Certificate or Birth Certificate).
Proof of Residence (Aadhaar Card).
Caste - Caste Certificate (if in case other than General caste).
PH Certificate of Govt. Hospital with minimum 40% disability (if in case Differently abled).
Latest Educational certificate (Marksheet/Certificate).
Photocopy of Ration Card or Voter ID Card.
