Junior Research Fellowship In Sciences, Humanities, And Social Sciences
Ministry of Education
Fellowship
Details
INTRODUCTION
The Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) scheme of the University Grants Commission (UGC) is open to candidates who qualify for the National Eligibility Test-Junior Research Fellowship(NET-JRF) of the UGC and the UGC-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (UGC-CSIR) joint test. However, please note that these are qualifying tests only and do not bestow a fellowship upon the candidate.

OBJECTIVES
The objective of the JRF scheme is to provide opportunities to NET-JRF qualified candidates to undertake advanced studies and research leading to M.Phil/Ph.D. Degrees in Humanities and Social Sciences including Languages and Sciences.

Benefits
Fellowship 
@ Rs.25,000/-p.m. for initial two years JRF
@ Rs.28,000/-p.m. for remaining tenure SRF

Contingency A (for Humanities & Social Sciences)
@ Rs.10,000/-p.a. for the initial two years
@ Rs.20,500/-p.a. for remaining tenure

Contingency B (for Science)
@ Rs.12,000/-p.a. for the initial two years 
@ Rs.25,000/-p.a for remaining tenure

Escort/Reader Assistance
@ Rs. 2,000/-p.m. in case of physically Handicapped & blind candidates.

HRA
(as per the categorization of cities by the Government of India)
i. Suitable single-seated hostel accommodation may be provided to the candidates in the institutions. In such cases, the fellow is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Director/Principal. HRA is not permissible for those candidates who are staying in Hostel accommodation.
ii. In case of non-availability of hostel accommodation, the fellow may be provided with single accommodation by the host institution. In such cases, the rent paid by the fellow on an actual basis may be reimbursed subject to the ceiling of HRA as per Govt. of India norms.
iii. If the fellow makes her own arrangements of accommodation, she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Govt. of India. 

Medical
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the fellow may avail of the medical facilities available in the institution/university/college.

Leave
i. Fellows are entitled to a maximum period of 30 days of leave in a year in addition to public holidays. They are not entitled to any other vacations.
ii. Candidates are eligible for maternity/ Paternity leave as per Govt. of India norms issued from time to time at full rates of fellowship once during the tenure of their award.
iii. Besides this an ‘Intermittent Break’ for a maximum period of 1 year may also be permissible to the women candidates. The leave can be availed 3 times during the entire period of the fellowship. However, the total duration of leave shall not exceed one year. This Flexi Time period should not be counted towards the tenure of the fellowship and thus effectively the total period of fellowship will remain the same.
iv. Academic Leave:-Academic leave without fellowship shall be permissible only for one year throughout the tenure (for any kind of academic 
assignment/teaching/foreign visit in connection with research work). The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure. Expenditure on 
foreign visits in connection to research work cannot be claimed from UGC.

Tenure of Fellowship:
These are integrated five-year fellowships for M.Phil. and Ph.D. subject academic criteria in force for selection of Ph.D. program. The duration of the fellowship is as under:

M.Phil. + Ph.D.
Maximum duration (Years): 5
Admissibility of JRF (Years): 2
Admissibility of SRF (Years): 3

Ph.D.
Maximum duration (Years): 5
Admissibility of JRF (Years): 2
Admissibility of SRF (Years): 3

The tenure of the fellowship is for five years from the date of joining. M. Phil is for two years. Fellowship will be granted upto the date of submission of Ph.D. Thesis or 5 years whichever is earlier.
Eligibility
Target Group
Candidates who have qualified in NET-JRF or the UGC-CSIR joint tests.

Eligibility
Candidates who have qualified in NET-JRF or the UGC-CSIR joint test. However, the registration for the M.Phil/Ph.D. is made by the Universities/Institutions/Colleges within the stipulated period of two years from the date of declaration of result or date of issue of award letter/date of joining the fellowship.
Application Process
Online
The qualified candidates have to apply against the advertisements given by the universities/institutions/colleges recognized under 
(i) Sec. 2 (f) and 12 (B) of the UGC Act, 1956.
(ii) Grant-in-aid Deemed Universities under Sec-3.
(iii)Universities/Institutions funded by State/Central Government.
(iv)Institution of National Importance.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number
Duly Filled Application Form
Score Card of NET-JRF or the UGC-CSIR Joint Test
Proof of Address
Proof of educational qualifications (mark sheets, certificates, diplomas, etc.)
Physical disability certificate (if applicable)
Bank Details

After receiving the Award letter student has to verify the document from the Dept. office and then submit it to the Academic office which will be further uploaded on the UGC Canara bank portal:
Joining report, HRA form, UGC award letter, Last qualifying degree certificate.

The student has to submit half yearly progress report after every six months to the Academic office,
for sending it to the UGC for release of fellowship in continuation.

After completion of two years of the program, the student has to submit Three member
Assessment committee report for upgradation from JRF to SRF to Academic office for
uploading on the UGC portal.

Contingency and HRA form: Students have to get it signed personally by the Academic office and
Directly deposit it to the Accounts section. No softcopy will be accepted.
