Quality Certification Reimbursement Scheme
Goa
CertificationCompanyInformation TechnologyQualityReimbursement
Details
Launched in 2018, the "Quality Certification Reimbursement Scheme" is one of the "Information Technology Policy Schemes" by the Department of Information Technology, Government of Goa. The objective and the scope of this scheme is to provide Quality Certification Reimbursement to the eligible Information Technology Units in the State of Goa. Reimbursement of the cost of industry-standard quality certification, capped at ₹ 5,00,000 per unit. The scheme has been framed as a part of Goa's IT Policy that envisages Goa as an aspirational geographical and human resource base for IT Units and a preferred destination for their investment and expansion.

Benefits
Reimbursement of the cost of industry-standard quality certification.
The maximum amount that may be availed under this reimbursement is capped at ₹ 5,00,000 per unit.
NOTE 1: The benefits under this scheme are subject to budgetary allocation. No Promissory Estoppel shall be applicable if benefits are discontinued in case the allocation is exceeded.
NOTE 2: This incentive may be claimed only once for any number of certifications acquired during the policy period.
Eligibility
1. All the new and existing units must have their operations in Goa.
2. The applicant must be one of the below:
Proprietorship Firm
Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Public Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Registered Partnership Firm incorporated under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (or equivalent)
Limited Liability Partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (or equivalent)
3. The bank accounts of the unit and/or its partner(s)/director(s) should be linked to Aadhaar.
4. Units incurring expenditure for acquiring the following quality and/or product-specific certificates are entitled to avail of the benefits: 
ISO: International Organization for Standardization.
HACCP: Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points.
BIS: Bureau of Indian Standards.
WHO-GMP: World Health Organization - Good Manufacturing Practices.
ZED: Zero Defect Zero Effect.
TS: Technical Specifications.
COPC: Customer Operations Performance Center.
eSCM: eSourcing Capability Model.
Hallmark: Hallmark certification, as approved by the Quality Council of India.
Any other certificates as recognized by the Government.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Web Portal of Goa Online. At the top right corner, click "Register".
Step 2: On the next page, verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form. Create a Login Name and a strong Password. Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 4: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 5: In the top ribbon, click on "Services", then click on "IT Services". Click on the name of the scheme. You will be taken to the application form for the scheme. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: Submit the application. A unique registration number will be generated. Note this number for future reference.
NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme on a quarterly/bi-annually/annual basis after incurring the relevant expenditure. 

Disbursement Timeline
Incentive Application Receipt: D
Application scrutiny as per checklist: D+30days
Application approval by the Empowered Committee: D+60 days
Issue of Regret Letter/Sanction Orders and Disbursement: D+90 days
Documents Required
Copy of Incorporation Certificate.
Copy of new unit registration document/certificate.
Copies of PAN, Aadhaar and GST TIN.
Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Copy of first bill generated showing the date of commencement of operations or other relevant document.
Copies of Quality Certificate(s) for which the subsidy is being claimed.
Bills/invoices/receipts or other proof of payment for all expenses incurred in order to obtain said certification.
Udyog Aadhaar.
