Pre- Matric Scholarships Scheme for Scheduled Castes & Others
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
Financial AssistanceScholarshipStudent
Details
This program provides financial aid to parents of children from Scheduled Castes and other disadvantaged groups to help them afford their children's education at the Pre-Matric level. The goal is to increase the participation of these children in education, reduce the dropout rate, especially during the transition from primary to secondary school, improve their academic performance, and increase their chances of continuing their education beyond the Pre-Matric stage.

Benefits
The students shall be given a consolidated academic allowance, as follows:
 Day Scholar- Rs. 3500 per annum
 Hosteller - 
Component 1- ₹ 7,000 per annum
Component 2- ₹ 8,000 per annum (For Class III-X)

In addition, a 10% extra allowance shall be given to Divyang (Disabled) students.
Eligibility
The scholarships are open to Nationals of India only.
Component 1: Pre Matric Scholarship for SC students
Applicant students should be studying in class IX and X on a full time basis.
Applicant students should belong to a Scheduled Caste.
Parent/Guardian of applicant students income should not exceed Rs. 2.50 lakh per annum
Component 2: Pre-Matric scholarship for children of parents/guardians engaged in Unclean and hazardous Occupation
The students should be studying in classes I to X on a full time basis.
Scholarship will be admissible to the children/wards of parents/guardians who, irrespective of their caste/religion belong to one of the following categories
Persons who are Manual Scavengers.
Tanners & Flayers.
Waste pickers.
Persons engaged in hazardous cleaning.
There is no family income ceiling under this component of the Scheme.
Eligible for one scholarship at a time for classes I to X. Notify awarding body if another scholarship is received.
Application Process
Online
The applications are invited on the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) (https://scholarships.gov.in/) in the month of April every year. 
Registration for New Applicant
Open the official NSP website and click on New Registration under Applicant Corner. 
Read the Instruction /Guidelines, provide the under taking by click on Check box and click on Continue.
Start the registration by Mobile OTP. 
Required document (Aadhaar Details and Bank Account Details) 
Registered Applicant 
Open the official NSP website and click on Fresh Application under Applicant Corner
Login with application ID & password.
Select the Scholarship. 
Fill out the applicant form.
Upload the required documents.
Submit.
Documents Required
Photograph.
Academic Certificate.
Caste Certificate.
Income proof.
Domicile Certificate. 
Bank Account Details.
Aadhaar Card. 
