Scholarships For Higher Education Abroad To Meritorious Boys And Girls From Open Category
Maharashtra
AbroadHigher EducationOpen CategoryScholarshipStudents
Details
The scheme “Scholarships for Higher Education Abroad to Meritorious Boys and Girls from Open Category” was launched by the Department of Higher and Technical Education, Government of Maharashtra on 4th October 2018. Under the scheme, meritorious students from the open/unreserved category from the Maharashtra State who wish to study abroad and pursue Post Graduation, Diploma after Graduation and Ph.D. studies can avail of this scholarship every year.
       The students from the unreserved category can avail of scholarships for studying various courses in reputed universities. The Maharashtra government has sanctioned foreign scholarships to Twenty (20) students every year. The Universities/higher educational institutes should be acknowledged by THE (Times Higher Education)/or QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) which are included in the 200 Ranking lists. This programme will be implemented from the academic year 2018-19 under the Higher and technical education department.

Benefits
The full tuition fee mentioned by the university will be paid by the government.
The full amount of personal health insurance will be paid by the government.
Subsistence allowance for the entire academic period (GBP 9900 for UK and USD 15400 for all countries except the UK) for the entire academic period as per the rate prescribed by the government.
The beneficiary will enjoy trip airfare (one time only).
Eligibility
The candidate and the candidate's mother/father or guardian should be citizens of India and residents of the state of Maharashtra.
This scheme is applicable to the students from the open/unreserved category.
Students from the reserved category who wish to apply from the open category are eligible to apply for the scholarships.
For PG, Diploma after Graduation and Ph.D courses from a foreign educational institution, THE (Times Higher Education) / or QS (Quacquarelli Symonds) Ranking must be within 200.
Unconditional Offer Letter from the educational institution of abroad.
Annual family income should be less than ₹ 8 lakhs.
The following seats are available for the said scholarship branch / course-wise:
Sl. No. Branch/Course Post Graduate Degree and Post Graduate Diploma Doctorate Total
1 Art 01 01 02
2 Commerce 01 01 02
3 Science 01 01 02
4 Management 01 01 02
5 Law Course 01 01
  02
6 Engineering/ Architecture Science 04 04 08
7 Pharmacology 01 01 02

Total 10 10 20
Application Process
Online
Step 01: Applications for this scholarship are invited online every year.
Step 02: The applicant should visit the official website/portal of the Directorate of Technical Education: www.dtemaharashtra.gov.in
Step 03: The applicant should register herself/himself on the official website. 
Step 04: Accordingly, the application is received by the Directorate of Training on the online portal till the deadline, After scrutinizing the details of the candidates and checking the eligibility conditions/conditions. A list will be prepared.
Documents Required
Identity Proof
Domicile certificate
Income certificate
Unconditional Offer Letter from the educational institution abroad.
Educational qualification certificates
Passport of the concerned candidate
No-objection certificate, in case the candidate is employed.
