Ladli Laxmi Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
EmpowermentFinancial AssistanceGirl ChildSocial Welfare
Details
Ladli Lakshmi Yojana has been implemented in Madhya Pradesh with the objective of creating positive thinking in public towards the birth of girl child, improvement in sex ratio, improvement in educational level, health condition of girls and laying the foundation stone for their good future.

Some families are financially weak and not able to give higher education to their daughters nor can they collect money for their marriage. The State government has started the Ladli Laxmi Yojana to provide financial assistance for the education and marriage of the daughter. This money can be used by the girl for her higher education or marriage and to promote the empowerment of women in the state.

Benefits
An assurance certificate of Rs 1,43,000/- is issued by the government in the name of the girl child.
From the time of registration, Rs 6,000/- will be deposited in the Madhya Pradesh Ladli Laxmi Yojana Fund for five consecutive years, the total amount of Rs 30,000/- will be deposited in the name of the girl child. 
To girl child taking admission in class 6th: Rs.2,000/-
To girl child taking admission in class 9th: Rs. 4,000/- 
To girl child taking admission in class 11th: Rs. 6,000/-
To girl child taking admission in class 12th: Rs. 6,000/-
An incentive amount of Rs. 25,000/- in two equal instalments in the first and last year of the course after taking admission to a graduate or professional course (course duration minimum two years) after class 12th.
Final payment of Rs 1.00 lakh on completion of 21 years of age of the girl child, on appearing in class 12th examination and on the marriage of the girl child, after completing the age prescribed by the government.
Eligibility
For Normal Cases
The girl child should be born on or after January 1, 2006.
The girl child should be registered in the local Anganwadi centre.
Parents should be natives of Madhya Pradesh.
Parents should not be income taxpayers.
Family planning has been adopted after the birth of the second child.
Parents who have two or less than two children, family planning has been adopted after the birth of the second child.
The girl child born from the first delivery will be given benefits without family planning but It is necessary for the mother/father to adopt family planning in order to get the benefit for the second girl child. 

For Special Cases
In a family where there are maximum 02 children and the mother or father has died, registration can be done till the girl child is 05 years old. But in this type of case, if the woman/man gets married for the second time and already has 02 children, then the daughter born from the second marriage will not get the benefit of the scheme.
If there are 03 girls together born at the time of first delivery, all three girls will get the benefit.
Girls born to women prisoners in jail will also be benefited under the scheme.
The benefit of the scheme will be given to a girl child born to a rape victim or a girl child.
The collector has been given the authority to approve the cases till 02 instead of 01 year in the cases where family planning has not been adopted due to health related reasons.
District collector will provide approval/rejection under special cases, after minutely examining the applications received late.
The application has to be made by the Superintendent of the Orphanage/Protection Home within 1 year of admission in the Orphanage and before the girl child attains the age of 5 years or within 1 year of adoption by the adoptive parents.
Application Process
Online
Applicants have to visit the official portal.
Click on "Apply Now".
Provide the "Self Declaration" and click on Proceed.
Enter the required Samagra ID of the Girl and family.
Provide the required details related to the Girl and her family
Submit.
Documents Required
Girl Child's Samagra ID.
The family ID of the girl child.
Photo of the girl child with mother/father.
Family planning certificate (in case of second girl child).

Note: 
All the required documents can be in jpg, jpeg, png, gif, JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF etc. formats, other than these no other format is valid.
The size of all documents can be between 40 KB to 200 KB, less or more size is not acceptable.
