Back-To-Lab Post-Doctoral Fellowship Programme
Kerala
FellowshipPost-DoctoralScientistUnemployedWoman
Details
The “Back-to-Lab” programme of the Women Scientists Division offers Research and Post-Doctoral Fellowship to women who have a break in their career, to facilitate their re-entry in science research. The fellowship is provided normally for a period of 2 years. The scheme is open to unemployed women who are permanent residents of Kerala and qualified with PhD in Science or Engineering. The objective of the scheme is to support women having career breaks, facilitating their re-entry in scientific research by providing a Post-Doctoral Fellowship.
        Back-To-Lab Post-Doctoral Fellowship Programme is aimed to support women in Science in Kerala. The programme focuses on addressing the issue of the under-representation of women in higher academics and professions particularly in Science. The programme will facilitate the re-entry of women in Science after a career break necessitated due to family commitments. Active participation of more number of women in Science is socially relevant and significant, especially in a developing economy. Further, the programme would benefit qualitative interventions in Science research by effective utilization of human resource potential.
Necessary conditions as per the scheme:
There should be a Scientist Mentor who is a regular faculty/staff of the institution under whose guidance the researcher should carry out the work. The Scientist Mentor should have at least 5 or more years of service left in the Institution before retirement. The Scientist Mentor should constantly monitor the progress of the project, facilitate smooth implementation of the programme and ensure timely submission of financial utilization certificates by the institute to KSCSTE.
Post-Doctoral Fellow availing financial assistance/stipend from other State/Central funding agencies or other sources will not be simultaneously eligible for KSCSTE Back-to-Lab Post-Doctoral Fellowship. The Post-Doctoral Fellow should furnish an undertaking to the effect that she is not availing financial assistance/stipend from any other source simultaneously.
The implementing Institute should provide full infrastructural facilities such as a laboratory, computer, library, communication, accommodation, water, electricity, etc. for smooth implementation of the project.
The unutilized portion of the grant (along with the interest accrued) at the end of the project period should be refunded to Council by DD in favour of Member Secretary, KSCSTE.
Scientists who publish technical/ scientific papers based on the research work done under the project should acknowledge the assistance received from KSCSTE.
The Post-Doctoral Fellow should not enter into collaboration with a foreign party (individual/ industry) without prior approval of the Council.

Benefits
The scheme offers a Post-doctoral fellowship of ₹45,000/- + 10% HRA per month along with an annual contingency grant of ₹75,000/-.
Duration of the Fellowship is limited to a maximum of 2 years.
Eligibility
1. Only women candidates are eligible to apply.
2. Applicant should be a Permanent Resident of Kerala.
3. Applicant should be unemployed and should be under career-break due to family commitments or other related matters, at the time of application.
4. Applicant should not receive any emoluments from any source at the time of application.
5. Those who have availed KSCSTE Back-to-Lab Fellowship earlier for their PhD programme are not eligible to apply.
6. Age limit: 40 years - as on the date of application, relaxable for 3 years for OBC and 5 years for SC/ST.
7. Applicant should have qualified Ph.D. in Science/Engineering subjects.
8. Applicant should have scored a minimum of 60% marks for post-graduation.
9. Applicant should have chosen an institution as Research Centre subject to the following.
• The Research Centre should not be the same as the Ph.D. Research Centre.
• Tenable only in R&D institutions (National/State level) or University Departments in Kerala and should belong to the category of “Government Institutions” [however, premier National Institutions viz., IISER, IIT, IISc. etc. outside the State shall also be considered].
10. Applicant should have published at least one research paper in a SCI Journal/ secured patent.
11. Those who have already availed of one Post-Doctoral Fellowship from KSCSTE or elsewhere are not eligible to apply.
Application Process
Online
Eligible applicants may apply online in the KSCSTE web portal for new applications in the following link: www.submit.kscste.kerala.gov.in
Scrutiny of the Application:
Preliminary scrutiny of the application is carried out for verification of basic eligibility conditions and supporting documents.
Peer review:
All eligible applications are subjected to peer review by five subject experts in the relevant area of research. Proposals with at least three reviews graded greater than 5 (on 10 point scale) are only considered for further processing.
Presentation before Expert Committee:
Proposals which have passed the peer review requirements will be invited for presentation before the Research Advisory Committee. One or two reviewers will serve as additional Subject Expert during the RAC meeting. On favourable recommendation by the RAC, the proposal will be considered for funding by KSCSTE. The applicants will be informed of the decision and will be asked to execute an Agreement as per the guidelines of the scheme
Contact Details:
The Head, Women Scientists Division
Kerala State Council of Science, Technology and Environment
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom (P.O), Thiruvananthapuram – 695 004
Ph: 0471 2548208, Fax: 0471 2540085, 2534605
E-mail: womenscientistkerala@gmail.com
For queries:
E-mail  : wsd.kscste@kerala.gov.in,  womenscientistkerala@gmail.com, wsd1kscste@gmail.com
Tel: 0471- 2548208, 0471- 2548346
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Photo of applicant
3. Proof of Date of Birth (Those who claim age relaxation should submit proof on reservation category)
4. Proof on permanent residency in Kerala
5. Marks sheet and Certificate of PG
6. Certificate of Ph.D.
7. Work & Research Experience certificate
8. Reprints of latest Research Publications in SCI indexed journal (Full length paper-maximum 2 nos)
9. Certificate on Break in Career (applies to ‘Back-to-lab’ applicants only)
10. Biodata of Applicant (include List of publications) & Biodata of Scientist Mentor - (Each one not to exceed 2 pages)
11. Declaration by the Applicant
12. Consent from Scientist Mentor
13. Endorsement from the Head of Host Institution
