Research Fellowship In Sciences For Meritorious Students
Ministry of Education
FellowshipResearchStudent
Details
Introduction 
The Research Fellowship in Sciences for meritorious students (RFSMS) scheme of the UGC is open to candidates who have registered for Ph.D. in Science in Universities with Potential for Excellence/Centres with Potential for Excellence/Centres of Advance Studies and Department of Special Assistance identified by UGC. 

Objectives 
The objective of the RFSMS scheme is to provide opportunities to meritorious candidates to undertake advanced studies and research leading to Ph.D. degrees in sciences. 

Benefits
Nature of Assistance Available Under the Scheme
(i)  The tenure of the fellowship is initially for two years under the RFSMS scheme. Upon the expiry of this period, the work of the Fellow will be evaluated by Experts Committee to be set up by the university. 
(ii)  If the research work is found satisfactory, his/her tenure will be extended for a further period of three years. 
(iii)  In case the work for the first two years is not found satisfactory, an additional year will be given to him/her for improvement. In such cases work will be evaluated again after three years, and if the improvement is found, the Fellow will get two more years under the RFSMS. 

Thus, the total period of fellowship is five years, with no further provision of extension. 

Financial Assistance: 
Fellowship: @ ₹ 8,000/-p.m. 
Contingency: @ ₹ 6,000/-p.a. 
Leave: 
(i)  Research Fellows would be entitled to a maximum period of 30 days of leave in a year in addition to public holidays. They are not entitled to any other vacations. 
(ii)  Women candidates are eligible for maternity leave of 135 days at full rates of fellowship once during the tenure of their award. 
(iii)  In special cases, Research Fellows may be allowed leave without fellowship by the Commission for upto one academic year during the entire tenure of the award for accepting teaching assignments on a temporary basis, provided the assignment is in the same city/town. 
(iii)  In other cases, leave without fellowship will be restricted to a period not exceeding three months during the tenure of the award on the recommendations of the supervisor and the institution. The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the total tenure of the award. Research Fellows have to apply for leave through universities/institutions/colleges well in advance for the approval of the Commission. 
Eligibility
Only those candidates who have been registered for Ph.D. in science subjects in Universities with Potential for Excellence/Centres with Potential for Excellence/Centres of Advance Studies and Department of Special Assistance identified by UGC are eligible to apply for fellowship under the scheme. 
Application Process
Offline
Application Process - 
Step 1: Download and take print the application form given in the scheme guidelines.
Step 2: Fill in the required details and attach the supporting documents.
Step 3: Submit the application to the respective institution.

Selection Process - 
The university shall select the Research Fellows under the scheme from amongst the eligible candidates through a process of interview by the Selection Committee with the following constitution:- 
(a) An eminent scientist to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor; 
(b) Head of the Department. 
(c) One Professor and one Reader from the department, to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor; 
(d) Two Experts from outside the university to be nominated by Vice-Chancellor, out of the Panel of names proposed by the Head of the Department. 

Procedure for Release of Grant - 
(a)   On receipt of the names, bio-data, and joining report of the selected candidates from the University/Institution, the UGC office will accept the candidature of the Fellow and will release the first installment of admissible grants to the Institution/ University on a yearly basis, from the date of joining in a lump sum manner. 
(b)   The University/Institution may pay the fellowship amount to the Fellows out of the development grant paid in a lump sum by the Commission for the purpose in accordance with the rules, to avoid any hardship to the fellows, due to delay in payment to them. 
(c)   The next installment of the fellowship grant will be released to the University/ Institute on receipt of the complete Utilization Certificate and Statement of Expenditure of the previous grant released by the UGC for the purpose, duly signed by the competent authority (Registrar/Finance Officer). 
Documents Required
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address
Proof of Date of Birth
Proof reg. the Educational Qualifications
Proof of being registered for Ph.D. in Science subjects in Universities with Potential for Excellence/Centres with Potential for Excellence / Centres of Advance Studies and Department of Special Assistance identified by UGC.
