Price Support Scheme
Assam
AgricultureDBTFarmerFinancial AssistanceSeeds
Details
The Price Support Scheme (PSS) is being implemented by the Government of India in the state. 
Main crops of the state like Bajra, Jowar, Maize, Paddy, Cotton, Tur, Moong, Urad, Groundnut, Sesamum Wheat, Gram, Mustard, and Sugarcane etc. are covered.
The Department of Agriculture & Cooperation implements the PSS for procurement of oil seeds, pulses and cotton, through NAFED which is the Central nodal agency, at the MSP declared by the government.
NAFED undertakes procurement as and when prices fall below the MSP. Procurement under PSS is continued till prices stabilize at or above the MSP.

Assurance of a remunerative and stable price environment for growers/farmers is very important for increasing agricultural production and productivity. The market price for agricultural produce many times tends to be unstable and volatile which may result into undue losses to the growers and discourage adoption of the modern technology and required inputs. 

The Government’s price policy for agricultural commodities strives to ensure profitable prices to the growers with a vision of encouraging higher investment and production. This leads to safeguarding the consumer interest by making available supplies at reasonable prices with low cost of intermediation. Moreover, the price policy aims at changing a balance and integrated price structure with respect to the overall needs of the economy. Let us take a look at the Price Support Scheme, an initiative taken by the Government to ensure a productive environment for farmers.

Benefits
1) When prices of commodities fall below the MSP, State and central notified procurement nodal agencies purchase commodities directly from the farmers at MSP, Under specified FAQ ( fair Average Quality).

2) In this way prices of the main commodities are procured and protect the farmers against the economic loss in farming.

3) Price supports cause larger production and smaller consumption (since consumers will buy less of any good as its price rises), resulting in overproduction at the support price.
Eligibility

1) Farmers get the benefit of the scheme by selling their produce at support price in APMC centers opened by the Nodal procurement agency. 
2) Farmers belong to Assam State. 
3) Government employees are not allowed to apply to the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Download the application form for the Price Support Scheme official website. Fill in the required details accurately and completely.
Attach supporting document
Submit the application by visiting the designated government office.
After submitting the application, it's advisable to follow up with the concerned department or officials to track the progress of your application. They can provide information on the verification process, any additional requirements, or the status of your application.
If your application is approved, you will be eligible to receive the price support as per the scheme's guidelines. The support may be provided through various means, such as direct bank transfers or procurement centers.
Documents Required
The State/UT Governments shall also notify all land revenue documents which are required to prove the genuineness of the farmers and required to produce before the procuring agencies.
Identification proof
Land documents
Bank account details
Agricultural documents
Income certificate
Photographs
