Food Safety & Standards Authority Of India (FSSAI) Internship Scheme
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
CollegeFood SafetyHealthInternshipStudent
Details
The Internship Program by the FSSAI provides interns with unique learning opportunities in various areas of food regulation of food safety administration. FSSAI is a statutory body established under the Food Safety & Standards Act, 2006 under the aegis of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India. It is the apex body responsible for ensuring food safety and compliance with food standards across the country.

Tenure
The internship will be available throughout the year on a Quarterly basis, Internship will be offered for a duration of upto 03 months, which may be extended to a maximum period of 06 months. No internship of duration less than two months will be offered.

Assignments
Interns would be attached to one of the several Divisions at FSSAI (HQ)/ROs/Labs depending on the academic and technical training and assigned project(s) related to different aspects of Food and Nutrition Management Processes.

Place & Domain of Internship
Region: FSSAI (HQ), New Delhi; Topics/Subjects: Science & Standards; Regulation; Regulatory Compliance; KRCDC (Library); Human Resource; Finance & Accounts; Trade and International Cooperation/Imports; Quality Assurance; Legal; IT
Region: Regional Offices (Chennai & Kolkata); Topics/Subjects: Food Imports Clearance and Licensing
Region: National Food Laboratory, Ghaziabad, Kolkata and Chennai; Topics/Subjects: Food Sampling and Testing
Region: NFL Kolkata Extension Centre, Raxaul; Topics/Subjects: Food Sampling and Testing

Benefits
Stipend
A stipend of ₹ 10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand only) for the internship period will be given to the deserving Interns on the recommendation of the Office/Division that they are attached with by the respective FSSAI (HQ)/Regional Offices / Laboratories.
NOTE: The criteria for deserving interns will be decided based on their (a) attendance, (b) assessment by their respective reporting officers; and (c) evaluation of the report by the Committee.

Working Space
FSSAI shall provide working space, internet facility and other necessities. 
NOTE 1: FSSAI shall not cover local lodging and travel facilities. 
NOTE 2: FSSAI will not bear the expenses of any Boarding.
NOTE 3: Interns would be required to have their own laptops. 

Certificate
All the interns will be awarded a certificate by the Human Resource Division, FSSAI (HQ) on successful completion of the internship i.e. on submission, review of final report/presentation and recommendation by the Project Evaluation Committee.
Eligibility
The students pursuing a full-time Graduate/Post Graduate Degree/higher degree from a Recognized Institute within India/ abroad, in any of the following:
Post Graduate Degree/B.Tech/BE from a recognized University or Institution in Chemistry or Biochemistry or Food Technology or Food Science & Technology or Food & Nutrition or Edible Oil Technology or Microbiology or Dairy Technology or Agricultural or horticultural Sciences or Industrial Microbiology or Toxicology or Public Health or Life Science or Biotechnology or Fruit & Vegetable Technology or Food Safety & Quality Assurance.
Business Administration & Management including policy regulation and related fields.- Only at FSSAI(HQ)
PG Diploma/Degree in, Journalism, Mass Communication and Public Relations.
B.E. / B. Tech (Only 3rd and 4th Year students not for 2nd or 1st Year) in Computer Science/Information Technology Software Engineering or related Stream.
Post Graduate Degree/Diploma in Public Policy Public Administration. - Only forFSSAI (HQ).
Bachelor/Master of Law.- Only for FSSAI(HQ).

NOTE: All the students who have completed the abovementioned courses need not apply.
Application Process
Online
Interested and eligible students can apply online in the specified format as per the process and timelines provided by FSSAI.

Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the FSSAI Internship Scheme and click on the 'Apply Online' option in the header menu, you will be redirected to the online application form.
Step 2: In the form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and upload the required documents in the mentioned filetype & filesize.
Step 3: Please read all the questions carefully, then click "Submit". Note down your Application ID for future reference.
Step 4: (Optional) You can view/print the form after the final submission.

NOTE 1: Applicants, who have applied for internships in previous months, need to apply afresh.
NOTE 2: Multiple Applications will not be entertained.
NOTE 3: All candidates are to ensure that the place for the internship that they are opting for has the subject/topic available with that place i.e. in the case of FSSAI lab only technically qualified candidates will be eligible.

Helpdesk
For any query related to Internship Programme at FSSAI, students may contact through email at internship-fssai@fssai.gov.in only.

Mode of Intimation
The final list of selected candidates along with their date of joining and Internship tenure would be declared online on the FSSAI website by the respective office where they have opted for internship.
Documents Required
During Online Application
Passport Sized Photograph.
Resume.

Upon Shortlisting
A short write-up/presentation for final selection.

Upon Joining
A Letter from their Institute indicating his/her status in the Institution as a student.
"No Objection Certificate" for allowing him/her to undergo Internship Program.
A Character Certificate from the authority of the Institute.
Proof of Educational Qualifications.
