Ramalingaswami Re-Entry Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
FellowshipGrantPhDResearch
Details
The Department of Biotechnology has instituted a scheme known as the “Ramalingaswami Re-Entry Fellowship”. The scheme is aimed at Indian Nationals who are working overseas in various fields of biotechnology and life sciences and are interested in taking up scientific research positions in India. The Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellows would be able to work in any of the scientific Institutions/Universities in the country. The applicant should have a proven/outstanding track record as evidenced by research publications and recognitions. The duration of the fellowship will be for a period of three years. Ramalingaswami Re-entry Fellows shall also be eligible for regular research grant through extramural and other research schemes of various S&T agencies of the Government of India.

The scheme has been conceptualized with the aim of attracting highly skilled researchers (Indian Nationals) working overseas in various cutting-edge disciplines of any area of Life Sciences & Biotechnology, Bio-engineering, Healthcare (human and animal), Agriculture and Veterinary biotechnology, Bio-energy and allied areas by providing them an attractive avenue to pursue their R&D interests in Indian universities/institutions.

Benefits
The amount of the fellowship will be ₹ 1,00,000/- per month.
HRA will be ₹ 18,500 per month.
Each awardee will, in addition, receive a Research Support grant of ₹ 13,00,000 lakh/year for the purchase of consumables, minor equipment, domestic travel, engaging project staff and other contingent expenditures to be incurred in connection with the implementation of the project.
₹ 50,000/annum institutional overhead will be paid to the host institute.
Awardees will be eligible for regular research grant/s through extramural and other research schemes of various S&T agencies of the Government of India, provided that a Co-PI is a regular faculty member, and the concerned funding agency allows for this.
The awardees can choose to work at any S&T institution including university departments or other academic institutions and national laboratories in India, provided the institution at which they wish to pursue research is willing to provide the necessary R&D, administrative, and basic infrastructural support to facilitate research.

DURATION AND NUMBER OF FELLOWSHIP 
The duration of the fellowship will be for a period of three years. In exceptional cases, the duration of the award may be extended by additional two years after a fresh appraisal of performance. During the extension period the fellow will be provided with Fellowship, Contingency/Research grant, HRA and Overhead. 
Upto 75 fellowships will be awarded every year. 
Eligibility
The Indian working in any area of life sciences & biotechnology, bio-engineering, healthcare (human and animal), agriculture and veterinary biotechnology, bio-energy, and allied areas will be eligible to apply.
The applicant should possess a Ph.D/MD degree or equivalent in life sciences/ agriculture, bioinformatics, and allied areas or an M.Tech in engineering or technology/ medicine, etc. with at least three years of post-doctoral research experience in overseas research laboratories. 
Those who have already returned to India within one year of the closing date of the advertisement (two years for women candidates) are also eligible to apply; however, if they have secured a permanent position in India within this period then they are not eligible to apply.
Applicants should have a proven/outstanding track record as evidenced by research publications and recognitions.
In case a fellow joins a permanent position, the fellowship and HRA components of the scheme will be discontinued, however, he/she can avail the research grant component of the fellowship for the remaining tenure of the fellowship.
The upper age limit for applying is 45 years.
Once a candidate is selected for the fellowship, before the initiation of the fellowship, he/she would need to submit a two-member advisory committee comprising one member from his/her host institute and one from another institute in India or abroad from the area of his/her research. The advisory committee will mentor the research work of the fellow and suggest course correction, and their opinion/views regarding the progress of the fellow may also be sought by the committee, whenever required.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: DBT will periodically advertise the Fellowship on the website of DBT India and on the website of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology and also in National Newspapers and Scientific Journals. 

Step 2: The applicants must register on the online portal, fill in complete information in the online application form and submit it before the closing date of the application.

Step 3: The online application form to be filled by the applicant comprises information pertaining to Personal Information, Academic Qualifications, Post-Doctoral Experience, Work Experience, Research Contribution, Referee Details, Proposed Research Work, and Proposed Host Institution.

Step 4: The committee constituted by the Department of Biotechnology will recommend the selection of the
candidates for the fellowship.

NOTE: The application shall be submitted in ONLINE mode only. The application form which has not been submitted through Online Portal shall not be accepted.
Documents Required
Date of Birth Proof
Copy of Passport (if applicable)
Doctoral Degree Certificate
Details of Research Contribution
Reprints of 5 Best Research Publications
Research Proposal detailing Proposed Research Work
Certificate by Host Institute
Letters of Recommendation
Undertaking from the applicant/ Statement from Current Employer (certifying that applicant is not in a permanent position in India) (if applicable)
Source: Regional Centre for Biotechnology
