Pension to Indigent Sportspersons of Odisha
Odisha
IndigentPensionSportsSportspersons
Details
The Scheme relating to "Pension to Indigent Sportspersons of Odisha" was launched by the Department of Sports & Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to provide financial support to sportspersons of yesteryears who are living in indigent conditions.

Benefits
1. The eligible sportsperson will get ₹3,000/- per month as a pension.
Pension to Surviving Spouse of a Deceased Pensioner:
Pension in favour of the surviving spouse of a deceased pensioner shall be sanctioned on a priority on receipt of application duly supported by death certificate, legal heir certificate, etc. The process of applying will be the same.
Mode of payment:
The pension will be drawn from the Treasury & credited to the beneficiary's bank account every month (or upon such interval as decided by the Sports & Youth Services Department from time to time) through e-Transfer.
Eligibility
Applicant should be a permanent resident of the State of Odisha.
Applicant should be at least 50 years of age if a male and at least 40 years of age if a female, provided that the age limit, in either case, may be relaxed by a maximum period of 10 years if the sportsperson has been suddenly incapacitated by an injury or a physical handicap or a serious ailment resulting in premature withdrawal from active sports (Medical Board Certificate is mandatory for this case).
Applicant should have represented the State of Odisha in the sporting disciplines recognized by Sports & Youth Services Department as in Annexure-I.
Applicant should not be having income from all sources exceeding ₹50,000/- (Rupees fifty thousand) only per annum (Income Certificate from the Revenue authority shall be treated as an authentic source).
Applicant should be free from conviction in any criminal offence.
Note: The age will be counted as on the date of application.
Cessation of Pension:
Pension shall be ceased on the death of the pensioner. (However, if the spouse of the deceased pensioner is alive, he/she may apply for the same).
A pensioner may also voluntarily give up availing of the pension at any time.
Pension can also be ceased by this Department if, on inquiry, it is found that the pensioner is leading a comfortable life, i.e. he/she is not in any indigent condition. In such a case, the Department also reserves the right to take appropriate legal/administrative action for recovery of the total amount already availed by the beneficiary in the name of pension along with 18% annual interest.
Pension can also be ceased by this Department if, on inquiry, it is established that the pensioner is getting a pension by resorting to unfair or fraudulent means.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, applicants need to apply through the online portal. (https://portal.sportsodisha.gov.in/Citizen/Landing)
Step 02: In case, the applicant is not registered yet, then click the Register link in the login screen. Applicants can register by filling in their details.
Step 03: After the account is created, click the 'Sign In' option to get redirected to the Login screen.
Step 04: After login, the applicant can view the services as displayed on the screen. Applicants need to choose the Sports Services option and click the ‘OK’ button. 
Step 05: Doing so, the dashboard is displayed, wherein the Profile Details of the registered applicant need to be filled in step-by-step along with checking the ‘Application Status’. On saving the personal details, the profile status for the same is updated.
Step 06: To apply for the pension scheme for the indigent sportsperson, click the ‘Apply Pension’ option in the dashboard.
Step 07: Enter all the required details in the application form. On verifying the data under the respective fields, click the 'Save' button. Accordingly, the status of the application gets updated in the dashboard.
Sports User Manual
Documents Required
1. Copy of Aadhaar Card
2. Birth Certificate
3. Photographs
4. Photocopy of Bank Passbook
5. Disability Certificate, (If applicable)
6. Proof of income
7. Sports/achievements Certificates
8. Any other documents, as required
Life Certificate:
In the month of January each year, the pensioners shall personally appear before the District Sports Officer of the concerned district and furnish a Life Certificate in the form as in Annexure-IV.
The DSO will forward/upload the same to the Sports & Youth Services Department by 10th February of each year for renewal of pension, failing which pension shall not be renewed.
