Nirman Shramik Kalyan Yojana
Odisha
Construction WorkerEducational AssistanceNirmanShramikStudent
Details
The scheme “Nirman Shramik Kalyan Yojana” was launched by the Labour and Employee's State Insurance Department, Government of Odisha. The objective of the scheme is to extend financial assistance to eligible building and other construction workers for continuing education of their wards/children under the “Nirman Shramik Kalyan Yojana” being extended by the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.

Benefits
Type, Number & Duration of Scholarship:
Sl. No. Educational Assistance (on completion of 1st year) Different benefits extended by Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board Different benefits extended by Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
1 For Class- 6th and 7th to girl child ₹2,000/- per annum
2 For Class- 8th to all children ₹2,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
3 For Class- 9th to all children  ₹3,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
4 For Class- 10th to all children  ₹4,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
5 Cash award to the children securing 90% or above in Class-10th ₹10,000/- (One time) 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
6 For Class – 11th/12th ₹5,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
7 For Classes of B.A./B.Sc./ B.Com./PG Studies  ₹7,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
8 For B. Tech/ MCA/ MBA/ B. Arch./ M. Arch./ M.Tech/ M. Sc./ B. Pharm/ M. Pharm/ Hotel Management & Catering Services/ Medical (includes Allopathic, Ayurvedic & Homeopathic) in Govt. Colleges only   ₹40,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
9 For B.Ed / CT/ Nursing Training in Govt. Institutes ₹10,000/- per annum 20% additional benefit to girl child of beneficiary over and above normal assistance
Eligibility
The wards/children of the building and other construction workers are eligible to apply under the scheme.
The financial assistance is given to only the wards/children of such building and other construction (BoC) beneficiaries who have completed at least one year as registered beneficiaries under the Board. In case, both parents are eligible registered beneficiaries, assistance in respect of a child should not be extended to both parents, separately.
Financial assistance under the scheme is being extended to students from class 6th onwards.
A maximum of two children of a family are eligible to get the assistance.
For 6th and 7th standard the scheme is applicable only in respect of girl children; whereas for class 8th onwards the scheme is applicable to both girls and boys.
Note 01: 20% additional benefit over and above the normal educational assistance is being extended by the Board in respect of girl child from class 8th onwards.
Note 02: The registered building and other construction beneficiaries should have made up-to-date annual contributions to the Board.
Note 03: 50 % annual attendance of the student in a class for that academic year is required for availing the said assistance.
Note 04: The building and other construction beneficiary should have an active Bank Account with DBT enabled in his/her name.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: For new users - Click on the Registration link on the Scholarship Portal i.e. (https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in), existing users can click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar number and proceed further.
Step 03: Check your registered mobile or email to get the user ID and password.
Step 04: Click on the login link at the portal and enter the User ID and password to apply for a scholarship.
Step 05: Provide all necessary details like personal academic, eligibility, and bank information.
Step 06: Click on the ‘Save as draft’ button to draft the information or click on the "Next" button to save and proceed with the scholarship form.
Step 07: The preview of the completed form will appear on the page. Download the forms and take its print out.
Step 08: The filled-in application will be processed for verification and disbursement by the concerned District Labour Officer in the e-Shramik Portal of the Board.
Step 09: The educational assistance on being disbursed by the disbursing authority in the e-Shramik Portal of the Board, the same will automatically get updated in the State Scholarship Portal for information of all stakeholders.
Documents Required
A copy of Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Applicant’s Photograph
Mark Sheets/Certificate of last qualifying examination
Aadhaar Card of the parent registered with the OB&OCWW Board
Building and Other Construction ID Card
First page of the bank account of the registered building and other construction worker (parent) containing account number and IFSC
College ID card issued by the concerned authority, While in the absence of the same, the student may provide an Admission receipt/Library Card/Letter of Undertaking from the concerned college authority (Anyone).
Resident certificate
Caste certificate, if applicable
Disability Certificate (if any)
Any other document, if required
