Financial Assistance to ST Students under "Gagan Bharari Shiksha Yojana"
Goa
EducationFinancial AsisstanceScheduled TribeSchoolStudent
Details
"Gagan Bharari Shiksha Yojana" is a Financial Assistance Scheme by the Department of Tribal Welfare, Government of Goa. Under this scheme, additional financial assistance of upto ₹ 15,000/- is provided to the Scheduled Tribe Students as the maintenance allowance given under the Post Matric Scholarship is inadequate to meet the expenses on food & travel.

Duration
Scholarships for studying in any class will be available for only one year.

Benefits
An Additional Maintenance Allowance of ₹ 7,500/- to Day Scholars for 10 Months.
An Additional Maintenance Allowance of ₹ 15,000/- to Hostellers for 10 Months.
Eligibility
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Tribe (ST) in the State of Goa.
The student should be a regular, full-time student studying in a recognized Institution / University. 
The applicant should have availed or should be eligible for Centrally Sponsored Post Matric Scholarship during the current Academic Year.
The income of parents/guardians of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 5,00,000 per annum. 
NOTE: If a student has to repeat a class, he/she shall not be eligible to get a scholarship for a second time in the same class.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Goa Scholarship Portal.
Step 2: Register yourself on the portal by providing your Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, and other details.
Step 3: Sign In to the Portal using the credentials received on your Email ID / Mobile Number.
Step 4: In the portal, browse the Online Application Form for "Gagan Bharari Shiksha Yojana".
Step 5: In the Online Application Form, fill in all the mandatory details, upload the mandatory documents in the mentioned file type and filesize.
Step 5: Click the "Submit" icon at the bottom to submit the form.
Step 6: Upon successful submission of the application, a pop-up box will be displayed showing the Application Reference ID. The same will also be received over the Registered Email ID and the Registered Mobile Number. Save this Reference ID for future reference.
Documents Required
Passport Size Photograph.
Attested Copies of Mark Sheet/Passing Certificate of the Exam Passed in the Academic Year.
Attested Copy of Income Certificate Issued by Competent Authority for the Year.
Attested Copy of Schedule Tribes Certificate Issued by the Competent Authority.
Attested Copies of the Hostel Receipt.
Attested Copy of Bank Pass Book.
Attested Copy of Adhaar Card.
