Atal Sneh Yojana
Gujarat
Atal SnehGujaratHealthNewborn Child
Details
Detailed 
Atal Sneh Yojana in Gujarat is the scheme that has launched on the 25th of December 2016 on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s ninety-second birthday. The scheme is launched by the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Vijay Rupani. The scheme will look forward to a healthy child after their birth. It was decided at the Gandhinagar Civil Hospital and it will look upon the children up to two months after their birth.
After focusing on the health of the children and covering some major diseases the government has now shifted its focus to core issues. Basically, the Atal Sneh Yojana will replace the decades-old Annual School Program which was being carried out by the health and education departments.
For this new scheme, newborn children will be screened specifically to look for health defects and improve them. This is being launched wide across Gujarat. Under this scheme, the newborn kids will be screened and given treatment immediately if there is any illness found. It will be carried out for two long months.
Objectives 
Through this scheme, children can be provided with better health. Better health will lead to avoiding malnutrition, disorders, and diseases.
Around seven percent of newly born babies every year are suffering from certain disorders and that has created a serious issue in the international platform. So by preventing such trouble, the country can be in a better position in international health conferences.
With such schemes, the government is also looking for a stronger young generation and this young generation would lead to having a stronger nation.
some of the dire diseases kids suffer from
The children suffer from some very grave diseases such as complicated birth defects such as Down’s syndrome, congenital deafness, club foot, neural tube defect, etc.
These are not all. There are some diseases, which are there present in the dormant state within the genes. By checking the kids at their tender age, the doctors will be able to better treat them.
The Chief Minister of the state launched that all of the diseases that are detected at the maternity homes by the government will be taken care of by the government.

Benefits
Benefit 
In this scenario, the newborn children will be referred to a doctor. If the case is not very serious, then they will be referred to a local facility for treatment.
Children who are ill or born with some genetic diseases will receive proper treatment from experts. They will also receive follow-ups after their treatment from family health workers.
The newborn babies will get a thorough health checkup from these health workers and the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK). This will be done at both private and government hospitals.
If there are noninstitutionalized deliveries that have taken place, then the social health care activists and the RBSK members will arrange a proper screening for the child in their center.
The Minister of State for Health in Gujarat has also announced that there will be a special cochlear implant surgery provided to kids that are being born with hearing and speech impairment.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
All Newborn children are eligible.
Age should be up to two months after their birth.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
Visit the nearest Anganwadi Centre or District Child Protection Officer office and obtain the application form.
Fill out the application form with all the required details and attach the necessary documents such as birth certificate, income certificate, and Aadhar card.
Submit the application form along with the documents to the Anganwadi Centre or District Child Protection Officer's office.
The application will be verified by the officials and the eligible applicants will be selected for the scheme.
The selected applicants will be provided with the benefits under the scheme.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Birth Certificate.
Parents/Guardian Aadhar card
Other relevant documents related to health issues.
