Medical Assistance (APB&OCWWB)
Arunachal Pradesh
AccidentConstruction WorkerDiseaseFinancial AssistanceMedical Assistance
Details
The scheme “Medical Assistance” was started by the Department of Labour and Employment, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh for registered workers of the Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB). The state government has proposed and implemented this scheme through the APB&OCWWB for providing medical assistance to registered workers who are hospitalized for five or more than five days due to accident or disease.

Benefits
₹ 2000/- only for the first five days.
₹100/- each for the remaining days subject to a maximum of ₹15,000/- if disability occurs due to accident.
Additional benefits up to a maximum of ₹25,000/- depending upon the percentage of disability.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. The applicant must be employed in the Building and Other Construction works.
3. The applicant should be registered with Labour Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
4. The applicant’s membership must be active at the time of application.
5. The applicant must have a disease or had an accident for which he/she should be hospitalised or put in plaster at his/her residence.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant needs to be registered as the Labour/Worker under the Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
Step 02: The applicant can obtain the application form from the Registered Office, APB&OCWWB of the respective District, and can also be downloaded from the official website of the Department of Labour and Employment.
Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant will be registered as a worker/labour under Board and an Identity Card to be issued to him/her.

Application Process:
Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to contact Registering Officers, APB&OCWWB of the respective District.
Step 02: Application in the prescribed format may be received from the concerned office.
Step 03: The applicant needs to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents. Thereafter, the applicant may submit the application form to the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card, etc.
Original copy of registration card /membership card of the board
Application form
Bank Account number/ front page of the passbook
Passport-size photographs
Address proof
