Grant of Subsidy For Setting up of Ice-Plant /Cold Storage/Fish Processing Unit
Puducherry
Financial AssistanceFishGrantPlantSubsidy
Details
The scheme "Grant of Subsidy For Setting up of Ice-Plant /Cold Storage/Fish Processing Unit" is a fisheries development scheme by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of India. This scheme aims to preserve fish and fishery products by facilitating the establishment of Ice Plant-cum-Cold Storage Units and Fish Processing Units. Through this scheme, eligible entities, including the Private Sector, Fishermen, Fisherwomen Cooperative Societies, and Entrepreneurs, can avail of a 10% subsidy.

Benefits
10% subsidy, subject to a maximum of ₹3,00,000 per unit, for the establishment of Ice Plant-cum-Cold Storage.
10% subsidy, subject to a maximum of ₹10,00,000 per unit, for the establishment of a Processing Unit.
Grant-in-aid for construction and maintenance of fishing harbor, fish landing center, fish landing jetty, fish drying platform, fish curing yard, work sheds, cyclone shelters, community halls, etc.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Private Sector/Fishermen/Fisherwomen Cooperative Societies/Fishermen /Entrepreneurs.
The applicant should be between 18 to 50 years old.
The applicant should not have availed any benefit of loan/subsidy from any other source for the intended purpose.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Proof of Age.
Declaration/Affidavit that the applicant has not availed any benefit of loan/subsidy from any other source for the intended purpose.
A provisional loan sanction order from the bank.
Necessary approvals from authorities such as Municipality, Department of Science and Technology, Inspector of Factories and Boilers, Agriculture Department, etc.
