Sneha Sparsha
Assam
ChildDiseaseFinancial Assistance
Details
Launched on 30th December 2021, the "Sneha Sparsha" is a healthcare scheme by the Dept. of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of Assam. In this scheme, financial assistance shall be provided for specialized treatment of children below 12 years of age affected with some serious ailments. Families with annual income less than ₹ 2,50,000 shall be eligible for availing benefits under the scheme, while priority shall be given to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.

Benefits
Permitted procedure and the maximum amount admissible:

Bone Marrow Transplant: Leukemia (Blood Cancer) and other conditions like Thalassemia, in which Bone Marrow Transplant may be considered as a mode of treatment, financial assistance up to ₹ 10,00,000 per case for referral of such cases to 'leading Hospitals outside the state equipped with facilities for such treatment.

Cochlear Implant: The scheme will offer financial assistance of up to ₹ 5,35,000 per case to BPL beneficiaries and ₹ 3,00,000 per case to APL beneficiaries for referral of such cases to a Hospital outside the state, if necessary.

Liver Transplant: The scheme will offer financial assistance of up to ₹ 16,00,000 per case to BPL beneficiaries and ₹ 10,00,000 per case to APL beneficiaries. Necessary arrangements shall be made for referral of such cases to leading Hospitals outside the state with state-of-the-art facilities for such treatment.

Kidney Transplant: The scheme will offer financial assistance of up to ₹ 3,00,000 per case to BPL beneficiaries and ₹ 2,00,000 per case to APL beneficiaries for referral of such cases to Hospitals outside the state, if necessary.
 Artificial Limb: The scheme will offer financial assistance of up to ₹ 1,00,000 for Cosmetic Limbs and up to ₹ 2,50,000 if a Motorized Artificial Limb is considered necessary.

Blood Cancer: For treatment of Blood Cancer in children with Chemotherapy, financial assistance of up to ₹ 1,00,000 per case will be given.

Specialized Eye Surgery: like Retinal Surgery or Posterior Segment Procedures, an amount of ₹ 15,000 will be given as assistance.

Tumors: Solid tumors needing costly investigations and treatment with Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy will be given financial assistance of up to ₹ 25,000. Children in need of cancer-related surgery will be given financial assistance of up to ₹ 50,000.

Neurological Anomalies: Hydrocephalus and Spina Bifida will be given assistance up to ₹ 50,000 for investigation, surgical treatment, and rehabilitation.

Thalassemia: Financial assistance of ₹ 1,00,000 will be provided to children suffering from Thalassemia, who are not fit for Bone Marrow Transplant but require specialized treatment like splenectomy, blood transfusion, and associated medicines.

NOTE 1: The rates notified are indicative and the actual admissible amount shall be fixed through a transparent process.
NOTE 2: Out of these, the first five points shall be considered for referral outside the State, and the rest of the procedures (6 to 10) treatment is available in the Medical College Hospitals and other Hospitals inside the state.
Eligibility
The beneficiary should be a child below 12 years of age.
The beneficiary should be a resident of the state of Assam.
The beneficiary should be affected by some serious ailment(s).
The annual income of the family of the beneficiary should be less than ₹ 5,00,000, while priority shall be given to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.
Application Process
Online
The applications from the parents of the children in need of financial assistance under this scheme shall be submitted to the Office of the Mission Director and/or to the Sneha Sparsha Committee, Sneha Sparsha C/o Gauhati Medical College.
The applicants shall have to appear before the Sneha Sparsha Committee along with the patient on an appointed date to be notified by the Member Secretary, and submit all necessary documents for verification. The final selection shall be done by Sneha Sparsha Committee on the basis of the documents received.
Documents Required
Aaadhaar Card
Birth Certificate of the Patient.
Residential Proof  / Domicile Certificate of Assam
Income Certificate (issued by a competent authority such as the Deputy Commissioner, Sub-Divisional Circle Officer, circle officer, Block Development officer, or any other authority notified by Govt.)
Photograph of the Patient (Attested by Doctor)
OPD Advice Slip / Discharge Summary / Prescription
