YSR Cheyutha
Andhra Pradesh
Citizen EmpowermentFinancial AsisstanceSocial Welfare
Details
The "YSR Cheyutha" scheme is a Social Empowerment Scheme by the Department of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to extend financial assistance to the women belonging to BC, SC, ST, and Minority Communities who are in the age group of 45 – 60 years (except the women beneficiaries already covered under YSR Pension Kanuka) with a sum of ₹ 75,000/- in four phases (in four years) through various Welfare Corporations. This will create access to enhanced livelihood opportunities, income generation and wealth creation at the household level, on a sustainable basis leading to better living standards. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 75,000/- in four phases (in four years).
Eligibility
1. Citizenship: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh.
2. Total Family Income: Total family Income should be less than Rs.10,000/- per month in Rural areas and Rs.12,000/- per month in Urban regions.
3. Total family Land Holding: Total land holding of the family should be less than 3.00 Acres of Wet Land OR 10 Acres of Dry Land OR 10 Acres of Land put together for this purpose.
4. Government Employee/Pensioner: No family member should be a government employee or pensioner. The families of Sanitary workers are exempted.
5. Four-Wheeler: The family should not own a four-wheeler (Taxis, Tractors, and Autos are exempted).
6. Electricity Consumption: Monthly electricity consumption of a family dwelling unit (own/rent) should be less than 300 units.
7. Income Tax: No family member should be an income tax payee.
8. Municipal Property: Less than 1000 sq. feet of built-up area (Residential or commercial).
9. Age & Gender: Age should be between 45 – 60 Years & Gender should be Female (except the women beneficiaries already covered under YSR Pension Kanuka).
11. Category: BC, SC, ST, and Minority Communities, and should not be covered under YSR Pension Kanuka.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: On Citizen Schemes Portal landing page, citizens can log in using the Aadhaar-tagged mobile OTP Authentication. In the “Citizen Scheme Application” page, citizens can select “YSR Cheyutha” from the schemes dropdown and click on “Submit”. 

Step 2: Applications submitted are forwarded to Welfare and Education Assistant (WEA) /Ward Welfare and Development Secretary (WWDS). 

Step 3: The Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS conducts the field verification for each application, takes eKYC, makes a relevant recommendation, and forwards it to Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) / Municipal Commissioner (MC). 

Step 4: The MPDO/MC reviews the application and makes relevant recommendations and forwards the application to the Executive Directors of the Backward Classes Welfare Department (ED BC). 

Step 5: The Executive Director of the Backward Classes Corporations (ED BCs) verifies the application and makes the relevant recommendation. 

Step 6: Based on recommendations made by the ED BCs and the applicants’ eligibility as mentioned in the Scheme Eligibility Calculator, the Social Audit lists namely the Provisional eligible list and Reverification list (with reasons for ineligibility) are published in all secretariats. 

Step 7: The citizens in the Reverification list can raise a grievance if they think that the reason mentioned for ineligibility is incorrect. 

Step 8: The final list of Eligible and Ineligible Beneficiaries is published in all secretariats. 

Step 9: The citizens mentioned in the Final Ineligible list can raise a grievance in Citizen Schemes Portal if he/she thinks that the reason for rejection is incorrect. 

Step 10: The scheme benefit is disbursed to all eligible beneficiaries through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). The acknowledgment of receipt of the payment by the beneficiary is done by the Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS using eKYC (Biometric Authentication).

Step 11: The beneficiaries can track the status of their payment on the Citizen Schemes Portal landing page by clicking on “Track Application Status”.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account.
Integrated Caste Certificate / Minority Certificate.
Date of Birth Proof: Birth Certificate OR SSC Marks Sheet OR Voter ID Card OR Pension Card issued by Govt of Andhra Pradesh.
