Tailoring Training To Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes Widows/Destitute Women/girls
Haryana
Backward ClassDestitute WomenHaryana SchemeScheduled CasteTailoring TrainingTrainingWidows
Details
The aim of the scheme is to enable Scheduled Caste Widows/girls/destitute women for self-employment. A stipend of Rs.600/- P.M. and raw material costing Rs.300/- per month per trainee is given to a trainee for getting training from the nearest Kalyan Kendar run by this department. After completion of one year course, each widow/girl/destitute women are given a new sewing machine free of cost to earn her livelihood. 20 girls/widows/destitute women from SC community and 5 from BC community are given training in each community centre.
Eligibility Criteria:
Female 
Permanent resident of Haryana. 
Scheduled Caste / Backward Caste.
Widow/Destitute women/girls.
Income Should be less than 2.5 Lakhs.
Age Limit is 14 to 45 years.

Benefits
Rs.600/- stipend per month.
Rs.300/- per month for raw material.
1 sewing machine.
Eligibility
Demographics
1) Age*:
Minimum Age: 14 for Female
Maximum Age: 45 for Female

2) Gender*: Female

3) Residence Type*: Both

4) Beneficiary State: Haryana

5) Income Details (per annum)
Individual Income
Maximum Income: 250,000 p.a.

6) Caste*: SC & BC

7) Religion: All 
Application Process
Offline
A trainee shall submit an application to the District Welfare Officer concerned through the Lady Social Worker concerned on a plain paper within the time limit as prescribed or notified by the Department from time to time. The application should be accompanied by a certificate signed by the member of the village Panch/ Sarpanch to this effect that the applicant is a Harijan Widow or a deserted/divorced woman.

Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department
SCO 42-44, Sector 17 A, Chandigarh – 160017, Haryana.
Tel: 01722704006
Email: dbcharyana@gmail.com
Documents Required
For children below 18 Years old
if the child has been enrolled after attaining the age of five years (with biometrics collection), his aadhar enrolment identification slip of bio-metric update identification slip. 
Any one of the following documents' namely -
    Birth Certificate or Record of birth issued by the appropriate authority; or
School Identity card duly signed by the principal of the school, containing parents name.
   3. Any one of the following documents as proof of relationship of the beneficiary with the parent or legal guardian as per the extant Scheme guidelines' namely -
Birth Certificate or Record of birth issued by the appropriate authority; or
Ration Card 
Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECSH) card or Employees’ State Insurance corporation (ESIC) card or Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) card.
pension card.
Army Canteen Card.
Any Government Family Entitlement Card; or
Any other document as specified by the Department.

For beneficiaries above 18 years old
1. If he has enrolled, his Aadhaar Enrolment Identification slip; and
2.  any one of the following documents' namely -
Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo; or
Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card; or
Passport; or
Ration Card; or
Voter Identity Card; or
MGNREGA card; or
Kisan Photo Passbook; or
Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicle Act, l988(59 of 1988); or
Certificate of identity having photo of such person issued by a Gazette officer or a Tehsildar on an official letter head; or
any other document as specified by the Department
