Chief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojana
Assam
Chief MinisterFinancial AssistanceGramyaSamagraUnnayan
Details
Objective 
The main objective of the mission is to double the farm income, in unison with the vision of Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.
CMSGUY: The Way Ahead
At the current rate of growth, it will take about 80 years to double the farm income in Assam. Normal interventions by the Government in this regard would not be adequate to address the problem. Under CMSGUY there is a proposal to initiate massive investments in rural areas for complete rural empowerment in a period of five years in a focused and concerted manner to realize the dream of doubling the farm income.

This is sought to be achieved through a 'saturation model' by covering each revenue village through focused interventions in 
Direct economic activities, 
Logistic support including market linkages, and 
Community support.

Above focused interventions are aimed at in nine critical areas and related sub-missions are:
Fishery Mission,
Milk Mission,
Organic Mission,
Land Management and Conservation Mission,
Sericulture, Khadi and Cottage Industry Mission,
Road and Broadband connectivity,
Semi-Processing, Processing and Market Linkages,
"Youth-Yoga-Sports" Mission and
e-Gram Mission by developing Village Knowledge Centres by strengthening traditional Namghar and other community institutions

Benefits
Benefits
The Government of Assam has launched Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojana.
Through this scheme farm mechanisms will be enhanced in the state and double-cropping will be facilitated.
One tractor unit consisting of one tractor including its accessories will be provided to the selected beneficiary group in the revenue village.
This tractor will be provided at a subsidized rate.
Through this scheme, the government is going to provide a subsidy of 70% to the beneficiary subject to a maximum of 5.5 lahks.
This subsidy will be admissible on the lowest price of tractors in the government-notified list of tractors for the category concerned.
Similarly, the lowest approved price of implements will also be applicable for the subsidy.
The benefit of this scheme will be provided to a group of 8 to 10 members who are actual adult farmers of the same village.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The benefit of this scheme will be provided to any group of 8 to 10 members who are actual adult farmers of the same village
The group of farmers must have a common bank account and will apply jointly with the signatures of each member on the application form preferably along with particulars of land and crops cultivated
The applicant group should not have more than one member from one family
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
First of all, the applicants have to go to the nearest office of the Agriculture Department
Now applicants have to ask for the application form for Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojana
Applicants have to fill out this application form by entering all the required details
Now applicants have to attach all the required documents
After that, applicants  have to submit this form to the agriculture Department
By following this procedure applicant  can apply under Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojana
Documents Required
List of required documents.
Aadhaar Card
Residence certificate
Passport size photograph
Mobile number
Email id
Income certificate
Age Proof
Bank account details etc
