National Family Benefit Scheme - Sikkim
Sikkim
Below Poverty LineBreadwinnerDirect Benefit TransferFamilyFinancial Assistance
Details
The scheme “National Family Benefit Scheme (NFBS)” was launched in 2016 by the Department of Women & Child Welfare, Govt. of Sikkim. Under this scheme, a lump sum amount of ₹ 30,000/- as financial assistance is provided to the bereaved household in the event of the death of the "Primary breadwinner" belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) Category. The one-time grant amount consists of Central and State Government Share. (i.e. ₹ 20,000/- as Central Share and ₹ 10,000/- as State Share)

Benefits
The beneficiary will receive a one-time grant of ₹ 30,000/- as financial assistance.
The assistance would be given to every case of death of a breadwinner in a family of the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Sikkim.
The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
In the event of the death of the breadwinner of a family, the family will become eligible to apply for the scheme.
The financial assistance will be paid to the household (includes spouse, minor children, unmarried daughters, and dependent parents) of the deceased person.
The applicant should have opened the Bank Account under “Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana”.

Note: A woman in the family, who is a homemaker, is also considered as a "Breadwinner".
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: The applicant has to approach their respective State Social Welfare Department and obtain the application form from the concerned officer.

Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents and submit it to the designated receiving authority.

Step 03: On receipt of an application in the prescribed Form, the same shall be scrutinized by the Selection Committee. Thereafter, the approval shall be accorded by the Secretary.

Step 04: The grant and payment shall be distributed through Direct Benefit Transfer System or any other system as may be decided by the Sanctioning / Competent Authority from time to time.
Documents Required
Recent passport size photographs – 3 Number
Attested photocopy of Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification as the case may be i.e. Income certificate, Caste certificate.
Attested photocopy of the Below Poverty Line Certificate.
Birth Certificate or EPIC or any other valid document having recorded the date as proof of age of the deceased “Primary Breadwinner”.
Attested copy of Aadhar Card.
Attested photocopy of first page of the Bank/Post Office Passbook along with the photocopy of latest updated account.
