Futkar Sabji, Phal-Phool Vikreta Hetu Taraju, Baat Evan Tokari Sahaayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentEquipmentFinancial Assistance
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Futkar Sabji, Phal-Phool Vikreta Hetu Taraju, Baat Evan Tokari Sahaayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 15 June 2016.. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing financial assistance of Cycle or Torch .

Benefits
An amount of Rs 700/- (Rs seven hundred only) per beneficiary will be provided for scales, weights and 02 baskets.
Eligibility
Applicant must be registered as an unorganized worker in any district of the state.
Applicant must have minimum age of 18 years. 
Applicant should not have received the similar benefits from any other schemes. 
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent residence certificate.
Bank account details.
Registration card.
