Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme - Sikkim
Sikkim
Below Poverty LineDirect Benefit TransferDisabilityPension
Details
The scheme “Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme (IGNDPS)” was started by the Department of Women & Child Welfare, Govt. of Sikkim in 2014. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to differently-abled persons of the age group of 18 years & above belonging to a household Below Poverty Line category with severe or multiple disabilities of more than 80%. The beneficiary will receive a monthly pension of ₹ 2000/- and this pension amount consists of the Central and State governments' share.

Benefits
The beneficiary will receive a monthly pension of ₹ 2000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Sikkim.
The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The applicant should have attained the age of 18 years and above.
The applicant with a disability of more than 80% is eligible under the scheme.
The applicant should not have any source of income.
The applicant should not be a recipient of salary/pension/family pension from the Central Government / other State Governments.
The applicant should have opened the Bank Account under “Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana”.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: The applicant has to approach their concerned Gram Panchayat /Municipality / Municipal Corporation office. Consult with the designated authority about the applying procedure and the local department office for this scheme. Collect the application form.

Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents and submit it to the designated receiving authority.

Post-Application Processes:

Step 01: On receipt of an application in the prescribed Form, the same shall be scrutinized by the Selection Committee. Thereafter, the approval shall be accorded by the Secretary.

Step 02: A copy of the order for the grant and payment of pensions shall be endorsed to the District Collectors, Sub-Divisional Magistrates, Gram Vikash Adhikari, and Panchayats where the applicant actually resides and the applicant himself/herself.

Step 03: The pension shall be distributed through Direct Benefit Transfer System or any other system as may be decided by the Sanctioning / Competent Authority from time to time.
Documents Required
Recent passport size photographs – 3 Number
Attested photocopy of Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification as the case may be i.e. Income certificate, Caste certificate.
Attested photocopy of the Below Poverty Line Certificate.
Birth Certificate or Electoral photo Identity Card or any other valid document having recorded the date as proof of age.
Attested copy of Aadhar Card.
Attested photocopy of the first page of the Bank / Post Office Passbook along with the photocopy of the latest updated account.
Disability Certificate issued by the Medical Authorities constituted for the purpose of certifying more than 80% of disabilities.
Attested copy of Disability Identity Card.
