YSR Nethanna Nestham
Andhra Pradesh
Financial AssistanceHandloomMachine UpgradationWeaver
Details
Being implemented since December 2019, the scheme "YSR Nethanna Nestham" is a Financial Assistance Scheme by the Department of Handlooms & Textiles, Government of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to help the Weavers to modernize their equipment and compete with the products from the powerloom sector, ₹ 24,000/- will be provided to every Weaver family who owns a Handloom. The scheme is applicable to all Handloom Weavers who are actually engaged in Handloom Weaving and eking their livelihood from Weaving, and who are present in the Departmental Data Base.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 24,000/- will be provided to every Weaver family who owns a Handloom in order to help the Weavers modernize their equipment and compete with the products from the powerloom sector.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident/domicile of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant should be a Handloom Weaver engaged in Handloom Weaving and eking their livelihood from Weaving, and who are present in the Departmental Database.
The applicant is required to be affiliated and registered with the Handloom Association.
The family of the applicant should own a handloom.
One weaver family shall be eligible for only one benefit, irrespective of the number of looms owned by them.
The weaver family shall belong to the Below the Poverty Line category.
Application Process
Online
The eligible weavers need not apply to the scheme as their details are already in the department's database. The prepared Nethana Nestham beneficiary lists are available online as well as offline. The lists are being displayed in the panchayat offices as well as on the official website.

Step 1: The Assistant Director (H&T) with the approval of the DLC/ District Collector concerned will submit the list of eligible Handloom Weaver families along with Bank Account No, Aadhaar No., and other details.
Step 2: The Director of Handlooms & Textiles A.P., will transfer the funds through DBT to the eligible beneficiary Accounts directly through CFMS Portal. (The Modalities similar to the one adopted by Transport Department for A.P. Y.S.R. Vahana Mitra Scheme will be followed).
Step 3: Through the social audit, the re-verification of the existing Weaver database with the department by village and ward volunteers will be done to cover leftover beneficiaries, if any, deletions and updation of details.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate
Below Poverty Line (BPL) Certificate
Proof of Identity
Proof of Age / Date of Birth
Registration Certificate issued by State Handloom Association.
Passport Sized Photograph
Details of the Bank Account
