Capacity Building For Service Providers - Entrepreneurship Programme
Ministry Of Tourism
EntrepreneurshipSkillTraining
Details
The scheme "Entrepreneurship Programme" is a Suo-Moto Sub-Scheme of the Ministry of Tourism under the Umbrella Scheme of "Capacity Building for Service Providers (CBSP)". In this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the institutes (given below) to conduct entrepreneurship development programmes - 
1.  Government-Sponsored Tourism & Hospitality Institutes
2.  Kerala Institute of Tourism & Travel Studies (KITTS)
3.  India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC)

The target group are the citizens who have passed Class 8th and who are above the age of 18 years. The programme has 150 Hours of courses in the following five trades - (i) Cook - Tandoor (ii) Barman (iii) Baker (iv) Homestay (Multi-Skilled Caretaker) and (v) Halwai - Indian Sweets.

Benefits
Benefits for the Trainees - 

COURSES
The following 150 Hours courses will be offered in the following five trades - 
i) Cook – Tandoor, ii) Barman, iii) Baker, iv) Homestay (Multi-Skilled Caretaker), v) Halwai – Indian Sweets
Each course will also have a built-in emphasis on improving the trainees in hygiene, sanitation, behavior, and attitudes in order to enhance their market acceptability.

STIPEND
A trainee with a minimum attendance of 80% will be paid a uniform lump-sum stipend of ₹ 1,000/- in respect of all five courses. This amount would be payable in two equal installments:
1.  The first installment would be paid after the completion of 75 hours of training.
2.  The second installment would be paid only after the certified trainee submits his/her feedback on the quality of the course and his/her self-employment status to the Implementing Agency. 

CERTIFICATION
The trainees with a minimum attendance of 80 % will be required to appear at the end of the course test and those who pass it successfully will be awarded a certificate by the implementing agency under the joint signature of the Principal/Director/Institutional Head and the Programme Coordinator.

EMPLOYMENT FACILITATION
The Implementing Agency will make conscious efforts to facilitate self-employment of the pass-outs of this Programme by assisting them in obtaining loans (e.g. Mudra), licenses/registrations, etc. Possibilities will also be explored for their deployment at Mega Tourist Destinations/circuits. The Implementing Agency will also sensitize the pass-outs about LMIS and SDMS.

Transfer of Funds
The amount paid as Stipend to the successful trainee shall be transferred only to the individual beneficiary’s Aadhar-linked bank account through the PFMS. The Implementing Agency would also render a true audited account of the expenditure incurred separately on each component to the Ministry of Tourism.

Funding to the Institute - 
The Programme will be funded under the MoT’s Scheme of Capacity Building for Service Providers under Suo Motu Initiatives. The detailed Type-wise breakup of costs for the courses for Baker, Halwai (Indian Sweets), Cook (Tandoor), Homestay (Multi-Skilled Caretaker) & Barman would be as follows - 

Component and the Cost (in ₹/-):
1. Training fee, i.e. Material Cost + Trainer Cost = 5,000.
2. Course Material (Handouts) = 500.
3. Certification fee (Certificate + Evaluation charges) = 1,000.
4. Apron = 300.
5. Lunch (@ Rs.100 for 30 days) = 3,000.
6. Stipend = 1,000.
Total = 10,800.
Administrative Expenses (5% of 10,800/-) = 540.
Grand Total = 11,340.

Over and above the costs listed above, 
1.  Advertisements in the local papers will be reimbursed on an actual basis subject to the lowest/DAVP rates.
2.  Boarding & Lodging Costs at the rate of ₹ 2000/- per trainee in respect of all outstation candidates for the entire duration of the course.

Funds would be released to the Implementing Agencies in two installments as per the following schedule:
1.  First Instalment
Percentage of Total Cost: 30%
Output Parameters: On commencement of Training Batch against validated candidates

2.  Final Installment
Percentage of Total Cost: 70%
Output Parameters: On successful certification of the trainees and submission of Utilization Certificate and consolidated accounts
Eligibility
1.  The applicant should have passed Class 8th.
2.  The applicant should be above the age of 18 years.

Note 1: A class will have a minimum of 10 trainees and a maximum of 30. 

Note 2: In case the number of eligible candidates exceeds the requirement of a batch and there is a requirement of additional batches, the Implementing Agency will concurrently or in phases run more batches depending on its institutional capacity. 

Note 3: In case of phasing, the scheduling of candidates between batches will be on first-cum-first-admitted basis. The Implementing Agency will maintain a register of applications which will also indicate the date of receipt of each.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Eligible candidates can obtain application forms from the Institute office or from Institute's Website. 
Step 2: The applicant should submit the duly filled application form along with all the documents and application fees.

Application Fee
1.  The fees chargeable to the applicant/eventual trainee would be ₹ 100/- for general candidates, a 50% fee (i.e. ₹ 50/-) for Women and Physically Handicapped, and no fees from the SC/ST candidates. 
2.  The Application Fee will be accepted in cash (by the Accounts Department of the institute) or as a Demand Draft in favor of the Principal of the Institute and payable at the city of the institute.
Documents Required
Proof of Identity
Proof of Residence
Proof of Age
Marksheet of Class 8th or Higher Educational Qualification
Aadhaar Card
Passport Sized Photograph
Bank Details

Documents to be Submitted after the Completion of the Course
1. To know the pragmatic outcome of the training, the trainees will have to submit evidence in the form of documents like Bank Loan / MUDRA Loan / e-wallet Receipts / Licenses / Registration, etc.

2. The views of the trainees on the content and delivery of the courses under “EP” should be obtained in a written feedback form to be designed by the NCHMCT. After completion of training, a WhatsApp group of trainees should be created by the Implementing Agencies for the purpose of tracking and monitoring of trainees.

Documents to be Submitted by the Implementing Agency
1. Each Implementing Agency will upload, on the 10th and concluding day of the training course, a video clipping/a clear photograph showing the class with trainees wearing their Aprons and with their respective tool kits on the e-mail address of the Programme Monitoring Unit (Skill Development) (pmuhsrt@gmail.com). 

2. After the conclusion of the training of every batch, each Implementing Agency will ensure that the list of the pass-outs along with their full contact details like address, telephone number, Mobile numbers (excluding female trainees), etc., and their employment and salary status is posted on their website.
