IVRI Institute Scholarship For M.V.Sc. And Ph.D.
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
IVRI InstituteScholarship
Details
The Indian Veterinary Research Institute will award scholarships to MVSc and PhD students 

IVRI Scholarship is admissible to only those candidates who are admitted through competitive entrance examination for MVSc/PhD degree programmes. The award to the fresh students shall be made by the Joint Director (Acad.) of the Institute on the recommendation of the ‘Standing Committee on Scholarship, Financial Assistance and Academic Progress’ which shall take into consideration the merit of each applicant based initially on his/her admission and subsequently on his/her performance at the Institute.

Master Programme at IVRI Deemed University
The candidates for admission to Master’s programme must have Bachelor’s Degree in Veterinary Science in the concerned discipline as specified below as specified by the Veterinary Council of India with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate (55% for SC/ST or sponsored candidates) or equivalent CGPA.

Admission for MVSc program will be held on the basis of all India Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. All the candidates including sponsored (in-service) for seeking admission to MVSc programme must have to appear in the written Examination. For more information related to Competitive Examination, please visit the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi website.(www.icar.org.in.)

The main subjects/disciplines of study in which various degrees will be offered are as follows: 
1.  Animal Biochemistry
2.  Animal Biotechnology
3.  Animal Genetics and Breeding
4.  Animal Nutrition
5.  Bio-Statistics
6.  Epidemiology
7.  Livestock Economics
8.  Livestock Production and Management
9.  Livestock Products Technology
10.  Poultry Science
11.  Veterinary Bacteriology
12.  Veterinary Extension Education
13.  Veterinary Gynaecology and Obstetrics
14.  Veterinary Immunology
15.  Veterinary Medicine
16.  Veterinary Parasitology
17.  Veterinary Pathology
18.  Veterinary Pharmacology
19.  Veterinary Physiology
20.  Veterinary Public Health
21.  Veterinary Surgery & Radiology
22.  Veterinary Virology

Admission for MVSc programme will be held on the basis of all India Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. All the candidates including sponsored (in-service) for seeking admission to MVSc programme must have to appear in the written Examination. For more information related to Competitive Examination, please visit the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi. 

Doctoral Programme at IVRI
75% seats for Doctoral Programmes, including sponsored seats are to be filled on the basis of all India Entrance Examination conducted by the Institute and remaining 25% seats (subject to atleast one seat for each discipline) will be filled-up on the basis of All India Competitive Examinations for award of ICAR’s Senior Research Fellowship [AICE-SRF {PGS}] conducted by Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi. 

The candidates for admission to PhD programme must have MVSc degree in the concerned discipline as specified below with a minimum CGPA 6.50/10.00 scale, 3.25/5.00 scale, 2.60/4.00 scale for General and OBC categories and 5.50/10.00 scale, 2.75/5.00 scale, 2.20/4.00 scale for SC/ST/Physically challenged/ Sponsored candidates, respectively from any recognized University in India or where grade-points are not awarded and only marks are awarded, the candidate must have secured atleast 60% marks for General/OBC category. For SC/ST/Physically challenged/Sponsored category candidates, the minimum percentage of marks will be 50%.

Benefits
For Master Programme
The amount of the scholarship for the Master’s Degree programme is Rs. 7,560/- per month for 2 years with a contingent grant of Rs. 6,000/- per annum for two years

For Doctoral Programme
In the Doctoral programme, it is Rs. 13125/- per month for three years with a contingent grant of Rs. 10000/- per annum for three years.
Eligibility
Entrance Requirements:
The Indian Veterinary Research Institute will award a scholarship to MVSc and PhD students on the following terms and conditions: 
IVRI Scholarship is admissible to only those candidates who are admitted through competitive entrance examination for MVSc/PhD degree programmes. It is essential to maintain a CGPA of 7.00 out of 10.00 at the end of each semester for Masters's or Doctoral Degree students for getting the Scholarship.

Master Programme at IVRI:
The candidates for admission to the Master’s programme must have Bachelor’s Degree in Veterinary Science in the concerned discipline as specified by the Veterinary Council of India with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate (55% for SC/ST or sponsored candidates) or equivalent CGPA. 

Doctoral Programme at IVRI: The candidates for admission to PhD programme must have an MVSc degree in the concerned discipline as specified below with a minimum CGPA of 6.50/10.00 scale, 3.25/5.00 scale, 2.60/4.00 scale for General and OBC categories and 5.50/10.00 scale, 2.75/5.00 scale, 2.20/4.00 scale for SC/ST/Physically challenged/ Sponsored candidates, respectively from any recognized University in India or where grade-points are not awarded and only marks are awarded, the candidate must have secured at least 60% marks for General/OBC category. For SC/ST/Physically challenged/Sponsored category candidates, the minimum percentage of marks will be 50%.

Age limit
The minimum age limit for PhD candidates shall be 23 years. There will be no upper age limit. The age shall be reckoned as of 1st August of the academic session.
Application Process
Online
For Master Programme
Admission for MVSc programme will be held on the basis of all India Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. All the candidates including sponsored (in-service) for seeking admission to MVSc programme must have to appear in the written Examination. For more information related to Competitive Examination, please visit the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi.

All the seats at Masters' level are to be filled on the basis of combined examination for admissions and award of ICAR Junior Research Fellowships conducted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi.

On the basis of merit and after counseling, ICAR finalizes the students for Post-Graduate degree programme (MVSc) in this university in 22 various disciplines. 

For Doctoral Programme
Advertisement inviting applications for admission is published in the first/second week of February/March every year in the newspapers and also in the website of IVRI (http:/ /www.ivri.nic.in) every year around the first/second week of February/March inviting applications for admission. The last date for receipt of applications shall generally be first week of April every year or a date as may be specified from time to time by the University.

Admission in the PhD programme will be held on the basis of an all India Entrance Examination. The written entrance examination for admission to Ph.D. courses is conducted by the University on All India basis at the following IVRI Campuses/Stations:

    IVRI Campus, Izatnagar, Bareilly (U.P.)
    IVRI Campus, Hebbal, Bangalore (Karnataka)
    National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal
    IVRI Regional Station, Kolkata (West Bengal)
    IVRI Regional Station, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh)

Selection Criteria
The candidates who fulfill the prescribed minimum qualifications are only eligible to appear in the competitive written examination.
Submission of application form for admission is not itself a guarantee for appearing in the written examination for admission at this Institute.

The minimum qualifying marks in the competitive entrance examination for consideration of admission to PhD programme shall be as under 
Examination : Subject matter of 200 Marks
Minimum qualifying marks in Competitive entrance test
    General candidates : 50% (100 marks out of 200) 
       OBC candidates : 48% (96 marks out of 200)
       SC/ST candidates : 45% (90 marks out of 200
The minimum qualifying marks for PH candidates will be same as for the category he belongs to i.e. SC, ST, OBC and General.

The merit list of the examination will be declared on the basis of marks obtained in the written examination. In case of tie, admission will be given to the candidate on the basis of marks obtained in their MVSc degree and then BVSc degree. In case of tie even in the above, the candidate older in age will be admitted.

Subjects for Written Examination
The candidates may appear in the written examination in any one of the subject as per Information Bulletin. The subject and its code for entrance examination should be clearly indicated in the application form. The Question paper will contain multiple choice questions. Syllabus, for the examination has been given in the Information Bulletin. The medium of examination will be English only.
Documents Required
Candidates need to upload scanned images of following document with the Application Form:
Photograph
Signature 
Thumb impression

No certificates are required to be uploaded along with the Application Form at the time of online submission
