Financial Assistance To Visually Impaired Advocates
Kerala
AdvocateBlindCourtFinancial AssistanceVisually Impaired
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to visually impaired Advocates” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, financial assistance will be provided to visually impaired Advocates who are practicing in any one or more Courts in Kerala. The applicant under this scheme shall be eligible for an exgratia non-recurring grant for the purchase of books, provisional suits, etc., and they are being paid a reader's allowance for a period of 10 years.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the Visually Impaired Advocates shall be eligible for an exgratia non-recurring grant of ₹3500/- for the purchase of books, provisional suits, etc.
The Visually Impaired Advocates are also being paid a reader's allowance @ ₹5000/- per month for a period of 10 years.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
2. The applicant should be a visually impaired Advocate.
3. The applicant should be an advocate practicing in any one or more Courts in Kerala.
4. The combined annual income of the applicant and his/her family from all sources shall not exceed ₹1,00,000/-.
Note: A person who becomes a reading assistant to advocates should at least pass the S.S.L.C. examination.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Identity card i.e. Aadhaar Card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Medical Certificate from an eye specialist in case of a visually impaired advocate / Medical certificate from an Ortho specialist in case of an Orthopedically Handicapped advocate
Certificate in the Prescribed Form from the Presiding Officer of any one of the Courts in a Court/Centre where the applicant is practicing, to the effect that the applicant is practicing as an Advocate in the Court /Centre.
Income certificate issued by the concerned Village Officer in the prescribed form showing the combined annual income of the applicant and his family from all sources.
Educational qualifications and professional certificate of both the advocate and reader assistant duly attested by a Gazetted Officer of the State Government.
Bank details- Copy of Pass Book
Other documents, if any
