Bhagwan Budhdh Scholarship
Gujarat
Bhagwan BudhdhFinancial AssistanceScholarshipWelfare
Details
Details
An initiative of the Gujarat government helping many girls in the state to complete higher education. Under this scheme, girls are provided financial assistance as per their respective studies. The Scheduled Caste girls who are not eligible for Post-SSC Scholarship due to having more than two children of employed parents or income of the family is more, even such girls can get scholarships from State Government for post-SSC studies. All girl residents of Gujarat can avail benefits under this scheme. 

Benefits
Benefits
The following group wise Academic Allowance is admissible
Group Hosteller Day scholar
A 13500 7000
B 9500 6500
C 6000 3000
D 4000 2500

In addition to the above allowance, Approved tuition fees and Approved other fees are admissible, If the student is disabled then disability allowance is admissible.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
Only Scheduled Caste Girls Students are eligible.
For Diploma level courses, In Std: 10 or 12 should have 50% or more percentile in the examination.
For Graduate level courses, In Std: 12 should have 50% or more percentile in the examination.
Must full fill all conditions of the Government of India's Post Matric Scholarship Scheme Guidelines.
Income Limit: More than 2.50 Lakh.
Application Process
Online
Application process
Applicants need to visit the official website https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in
New applicants have to register his/her self first.
At the time of registration, applicants have to provide their mobile number, email & set password.
Update profile.
Applying for the scholarship.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Identity proof: Aadhar card, Voter ID, College ID, etc.
Residence proof: PAN card, Residence certificate, etc.
Income proof.
Aadhar card.
Passport-size photograph.
Academics certificates.
Bank details e.g. Account number, IFSC, MICR code.
Other documents may be required.
Caste certificate.
