RMEWF-Financial Assistance For Medical Treatment Of Ex-Servicemen
Ministry Of Defence
Ex-ServicemenHealth CheckupHealth TreatmentMedical ExpensesWidow Of Ex-Servicemen
Details
A scheme to provide financial assistance to a non-pensioner Ex-Servicemen/widows of ranks up to Havildar/equivalent to meet routine medical expenses.

With ever increasing costs of health care, it becomes extremely difficult for non-pensioner ESM to combat diseases especially in old age. At such age, medical expenses push such ESM into a state of poverty and loss of dignity. The scheme to provide financial assistance to non-pensioners, who are without any other sources of income and in state of penury,

Treatment of Serious Diseases
The expenditure incurred on treatment of various serious ailments is covered under a separate scheme

Benefits
A Financial assistance up to a maximum of Rs.30,000/- per year per eligible Ex-Servicemen/widow is provided in a financial year.
Eligibility
The following criteria must be fulfilled:-

Applicant must be a non-pensioner ESM or his widow.
Should be of rank Havildar/equivalent and below.
Should be recommended by respective Zila Sainik Board (ZSB).
Expenditure must be incurred at recognized government hospitals at rates approved under CGHS/ ECHS.
Application Process
Online
Eligible Ex-servicemen / their widows can visit the official website of Kendriya Sainik Board Secretariat https://ksb.gov.in/
Click on “Register” which is available on the homepage of the portal.
Now, the registration form will be displayed, fill the form with necessary details.
Upload the Photo
Save the application by clicking on the “Save” button and the saved details and password will be forwarded to the registered mail id.
Click the activation link which is sent to the mail id to login into the KSB portal.
Provide user name, password and verification code and click on the “Login “ button.
Select the scheme name and start filling the new application form by entering the required details.
Copies of the supporting documents duly attested by the respective Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must be uploaded with the online application.
Once the online application is submitted, ZSWO will scrutinize the online applications and give appointment to the applicant for verification, 
After successful verification, ZWSO will recommend the online application and forward the harp copy as well soft copy to Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) through Rajya Sainik Boards (RSBs) on a monthly basis for further processing.
Processing at KSB Secretariat

Once the application reaches the Kendriya Sainik Board, the Section-in-charge verify the same and upload the printed list for the approval of JD (Welfare). 
Such applications of approval is then moved for sanction of the competent authority in one lot, preferably every quarter.
Payment Procedure
After approval of Secretary KSB, the application is processed for payment by Welfare Section. 
The welfare section verifies the Ex-servicemen's service number, name, banker's IFS Code and bank account number & forward the list of approved cases to Accounts Section for payment. 
The Accounts Section then processes the list for payment directly to beneficiaries via ECS to the beneficiaries as applicable.
Track Application Status
Applicant has to revisit the same portal https:  https://ksb.gov.in/index.htm
Click on “Status of application” link on the homepage of the portal.
Now enter your DAK ID and verification code. Click on the “Search” button.
Documents Required
Copies of following documents duly attested by ZSWO must accompany the application:-

Discharge book/documents.
I-Card issued by ZSB is must both for ESM & widows.
Original medical bills countersigned by the attending doctor.
Hospital discharge summary countersigned by attending doctor.
A certificate from the applicant stating that he/she has not taken any money/grant from the State or present employer in the form of reimbursement or medical allowance.
Details of Bank A/c No (in PNB/SBI only) and IFS Code.
