Security Related Expenditure (Relief and Rehabilitation)
Ministry Of Home Affairs
MigrantRehabilitationReimbursementReliefShelter
Details
The scheme "Security Related Expenditure (Relief and Rehabilitation)" also known as "SRE (R&R) Scheme" was also introduced in 1989-90 by the Jammu and Kashmir Division, Ministry of Home Affairs to support the relief and rehabilitation of the Kashmiri migrants who have been uprooted from the Valley during the militancy period besides other relief & rehabilitation measures. It provides for 100% reimbursement. 60% of the amount is reimbursed upfront on receipt of claims and the remaining 40% is released after receipt of the audit report. It broadly covers relief to Kashmiri and Jammu migrants, expenditure incurred on PM's package for return and rehabilitation of Kashmiri migrants, relief to NoKs of civilians/security personnel killed in militant-related attacks, rehabilitation of surrendered militants etc. "SRE (R&R) Scheme" is a component of the Umbrella scheme, 'Modernization of Police Forces (MPF)". SRE (R&R) is funded entirely by the Central Government. In response to the serious militancy situation in Jammu and Kashmir, the Government of J&K incurred significant expenditure to maintain peace and tranquillity, this scheme aims to reimburse the expenses incurred by the State Government for various Relief and Rehabilitation activities.

Benefits
1. Cash relief to Kashmiri and Jammu migrants settled in J&K: ₹3,250 per person per month, with a maximum of ₹13,000 per family per month.
2. Cash relief to Kashmiri migrants settled in Delhi/NCR: ₹3,250 per person per month, with a maximum of ₹13,000 per family per month.
3. Cash relief to migrants in the hilly areas of the Jammu division, equivalent to Kashmiri migrants: ₹2,500 per person per month, with a maximum of ₹10,000 per family per month.
4. Relief for ration/fodder to migrants in hilly areas of Jammu division, including 9 kg of Atta, 2 kg of Rice per person per month, and 10 litres of kerosene oil per family per month, along with ₹300 per cattle per month for fodder.
5. Basic dry ration for needy migrants, including 9 kgs of rice, 2 kgs of Atta per person, and 1 kg of sugar per family per month, with additional ex-gratia relief for property loss, up to ₹10,00,000, divided between immovable and movable property.

The Government of India also supports employment opportunities for Kashmiri migrants, providing 3000 youths with salaries until they secure regular positions in the State Government. Additionally, an extra 3000 State Government jobs were approved for Kashmiri migrants under PMDP-2015.

Financial support is directed towards the rehabilitation of migrants, including the construction of transit accommodations and housing facilities, along with scholarships, employment opportunities, and waivers on interest for loans. This includes:
1. One-time compensation of ₹5,00,000 for the Next of Kin (NoK) of civilians killed in militancy-related incidents.
2. Pension of ₹750 per month for widows of civilians killed in militancy-related violence.
3. Scholarships for orphans affected by militancy, with an additional ₹150 per month for vocational/technical training.
4. Construction of 6000 transit accommodations for Kashmiri migrants with State Government jobs.
5. An advance of ₹19,00,00,000 crore for the Corpus Fund of the Jammu and Kashmir State Rehabilitation Council.

Ex-gratia payments of ₹5 lakh have been extended to the Next of Kin of JKP/SPOs/CAPFs/Army personnel deceased due to violence. Relief measures, including the construction of bunkers, have been initiated to support those living in areas affected by Cross Border Firing.
A surrender policy has been put in place with a stipend of ₹2,000 per month for three years and an immediate grant of ₹1,50,000. Incentives for the surrender of weapons have also been specified.
Relief is offered to victims of cross-border firing, terrorism, and militancy, including compensation for housing, crop, and livestock losses. The compensation for the loss of milch animals has been increased from ₹30,000 per animal to ₹50,000 per animal.
Furthermore, the Government of India provides ex-gratia cash relief of ₹5,00,000 to the Next of Kin or victims with over 50% disability due to Cross Border Firing, effective from 24.08.2016. Financial assistance of ₹5,50,000 per family is provided to 5764 families of West Pakistani Refugees (WPRs).
Eligibility
The beneficiary should be Kashmir or Jammu Migrant.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Proforma for Claims
The claims for the reimbursement of Security Related Expenditures should be submitted using the prescribed proforma, duly certified by an officer, not below the rank of Additional Secretary to the concerned State Government.

Step 2: Release of Payments
All SRE releases should be reimbursed upon verifying the State Government's claims.
60% of the claim amount for approved items (except where Direct Benefit Transfer is used for disbursement) may be released based on certification by an officer of the State Government, not below the rank of Additional Secretary.
40% of the claim amount may be released based on the recommendation of an audit team from IFD-MHA.
In cases where Direct Benefit Transfer is used, 100% of the claim amount will be reimbursed, subject to certification by an officer of the State Government not below the rank of Additional Secretary.

NOTE: In special circumstances and with the approval of the SRE Standing Committee, advance releases may be considered. Additionally, advances for the first quarter of a financial year (while the previous year's accounts are being finalized) may be released.
Documents Required
For the J&K Migrants
Aadhaar Number
Domicile Certificate
Details of the Aadhaar-linked Bank Account
