Financial Assistance to Take up Value Addition to Seafood
Goa
ConstructionEquipmentFinancial AssistanceFisheriesSubsidy
Details
“Financial Assistance to Take up Value Addition to Seafood” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, individuals who have been residents of Goa for the last 15 years, and are interested in setting up a unit for value-added fisheries products are provided financial assistance as a subsidy of 50% of the cost for the Construction or Renovation of the Unit or for the Purchase of Equipment. The applications are accepted only in offline mode. 

Benefits
Financial Assistance for Construction or Renovation of the Unit
50% subsidy of the cost, limited to ₹5,00,000 per unit.
Financial Assistance for Purchase of Equipment
50% subsidy of the cost, limited to ₹2,00,000 per unit.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an individual interested in setting up a unit for value-added fisheries products. 
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for the last 15 years.
Reservation/ Relaxation/ Preference/ Priority
Preference will be given to self-help groups, women entrepreneurs, and youth (who have completed fishermen training courses/short-term training programs conducted by the Directorate of Fisheries).
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application form from the department.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Detailed Project Report
Proof of Availability of Land/Ownership Documents
Proof of Identity
Residence Certificate for 15 Years
For Self-Help Group - Group Registration Documents
Mandate Form
