Travel Concession To The Differently Abled Persons In State Owned Transport Corporation Buses
Tamil Nadu
Differently Abled PersonsTamil NaduTransport Corporation BusTravel
Details
The Government of Tamil Nadu introduced Differently Abled Persons In Stated Owned Transport Corporation buses. 
i) All visually impaired persons are given travel concession to travel up to 100 Km. to and fro without any condition and free of cost.  
ii) Free-of-cost travel concession is allowed to intellectually disabled persons to travel with one escort.  
iii) The speech and hearing impaired and locomotor differently-abled persons are given travel concession free of cost up to 100 Kms to go to schools/colleges/hospitals/training centers/work spots from their residence and return.           
iv) Free travel concession is provided to children with disabilities to attend early intervention centers and pre-schools along with one escort/parent.     
There is no income ceiling to avail concessions in (i) to (iv).

Benefits
i) All visually impaired persons are given travel concession to travel up to 100 Km. to and fro without any condition and free of cost.
ii) Free-of-cost travel concession is allowed to intellectually disabled persons to travel with one escort. 
iii) The speech and hearing impaired and locomotor differently-abled persons are given travel concession free of cost up to 100 Kms to go to schools/colleges/hospitals/training centers/work spots from their residence and return.
iv) Free travel concession is provided to children with disabilities to attend early intervention centers and pre-schools along with one escort/parent.
There is no income ceiling to avail concessions in (i) to (iv).
Eligibility
 The Applicant should be a Differently abled person.  
Application Process
Offline
The Applicant should contact District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and submit an application at the address of Assistant Director (DAW), O/o. The Commissionerate for Welfare of the Differently Abled, No.5, Kamarajar salai, Chennai – 600 005.  Ph: 044-28444940 District Collector / Managing Director of the Metropolitan / State Transport Corporation.
Documents Required
National identity card for differently abled, 
Certificate  from the educational  institution,  (except  for the Blind) 
Bonafide certificate from concerned authority/employer.  
For 75% concession every time a Xerox copy of the Identity card is to be given to the conductor and the original shall be shown if required.  
For availing 75% concession for the escort, a certificate from Government Doctor should be submitted.
