New Generation Innovation Network
Tripura
CollegeEducational InstitutionGenerationGrantInfrastructureInnovationNetwork
Details
The Scheme “New Generation Innovation Network (NGIN)” was launched by the Directorate of Information Technology, Government of Tripura with the vision to create an ecosystem to promote innovations in educational institutions and transform student ideas & concepts into successful business enterprises.
Objective of the Scheme:
The main objective of the scheme is to create an ecosystem that promotes innovation in educational institutions and also to encourage students, research scholars, and alumni to share their ideas to solve chosen.
Innovation centre shall provide an ecosystem to convert the ideas into proof of concept and upgrade them to a level of commercial value.
After successful incubation, encourage and lead the teams towards setting up a business enterprise.
Duration of the Scheme:
The duration of the scheme will be the same as the duration of the Tripura IT/ITeS Start-up Scheme (3 years). After that, the institute will explore other sources of funding.  
Implementation strategy:
The Scheme will be implemented in a phased manner. Initially, the scheme will cover Technical Degree Colleges subsequently Polytechnic Institutes and Govt. Degree College will be covered.
The scheme will be implemented by the Directorate of Information Technology in collaboration with the Host Institute.
Funds available for the Tripura Information Technology/Information Technology Enabled Scheme (IT/ITeS) Start-up Scheme will be utilized for the implementation of the NGIN Scheme.
Institutions will be selected based on their infrastructure, quality of faculty, and excellence in education.
State and Institute Level Innovation Council:
State Level Committee: State level Start-up council will act as State level committee for the selection, evaluation, and monitoring of the scheme. The committee reviews all selected institutions where the NGIN centre could be established.
Institute Level Committee: An Institute Level Innovation Committee will be formed in the host institute to monitor the implementation of the scheme and selection of the students.

Benefits
The host institute will be provided a one-time grant of ₹10 lakhs to set up the required infrastructure for the implementation of the scheme and also provide the following expenses:
Operational Expenses:
Each Educational Institute will get funding of ₹5 Lakhs per year to be used towards operating expenditure for maintenance.
Operational Expenses Grant of ₹5 lakhs per annum (released in phases of ₹2.5 lakhs at a time) shall be operated like a revolving fund i.e. upon submission of audited utilization the next installment could be claimed
Project Fund:
Each Project/team will get a maximum funding of ₹1.00 lakh and the college will take up a maximum of 5 projects in a year. Each project/idea selected by the host institute shall have to be approved by the State Level Committee.
Eligibility
1. All the Technical Institutes in Tripura are eligible for this scheme.
2. Host institutes will be selected based on their infrastructure, quality of faculty, and excellence in education by the State level Committee.
Infrastructure: The following minimum specified infrastructure to be made available in the Educational institutions:
Minimum 1000 sq. ft. carpet area in a location that is appropriate to host an incubation centre on a college/ institution campus.
10 computers with the latest configuration. (Minimum configurations Core i5 / i7; 5th Gen; 1Tb hard disk, 4GB / 6GB Ram, 3GHz. Monitor at least 21 inches).
Workspaces to accommodate up to 5 start projects/teams/start-ups simultaneously.
Well-furnished incubation room with furniture, AC, and interior decoration.
Independent high-speed dedicated internet connection, uninterrupted power backup and Projection facility, Discussion, and meeting room to be made available on the college/institution campus.
Manpower:
1. One dedicated manpower will need to be appointed as a Start-up coordinator with the following qualifications.
Minimum Qualification: Technical/Management graduate with at least 5 years of working experience in the industry in sales/Marketing.
2. Selection of a minimum of two mentors in specific areas of technology/specialization from the Faculty of the Host institute.
Note: Host Institution should open a separate bank account in any nationalized bank to receive grants.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The eligible Technical Institutes need to fill out the application form. The format for the application is provided in Annexure-1.
Step 02: The filled application form will be collected with necessary documents from the Head of the Institution.
Step 03: Polytechnic Institute & General Govt. Degree Colleges will be selected on the basis of the number of IT-related courses offered by the college and the strength of the student in those courses should be more than 100.
Step 04: The committee reviews all applications where the NGIN centre could be established.
Documents Required
1. Details of the Principal of the Institute
2. List/Details of Management Committee Members of the institute
3. Documents in support of Infrastructure details
4. List/Details of Faculty
5. List/details of Research Activities in the institute
6. Any other document, as required
