Subsidy for Fund Raising from SME Exchange
Tamil Nadu
BusinessEnterpriseFundMSMESubsidy
Details
The scheme "Subsidy for Fund Raising from SME Exchange" by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, is introduced with the objective to facilitate high growth potential SMEs in the State to raise equity capital through SME Exchange utilizing IPOs, in both the manufacturing and services sector. The government will provide assistance for listing & raising money in the SME stock exchange.

Benefits
Assistance with a maximum of ₹ 30,00,000, subject to 50% of the total expenditure incurred on SME IPO.
Eligibility
All new Micro and Small enterprises set up in declared 254 industrially backward blocks are eligible
The applicant should be qualified for listing, in line with the norms prescribed by the National Stock Exchange/ Bombay Stock Exchange.
Only Merchant Banker Fees, Due Diligence Fees, Registrar and Transfer Agent Fees, Peer Review Auditor Fees, Exchange Fees, and Listing Charges Are Eligible for Reimbursement.

Know Your Eligibility for this scheme here
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu. In the top ribbon, click "Login / Registration".
In the registration form, fill in the mandatory details accurately, Name, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Number, Email ID, and Mobile Number. Create a new password. The password must contain a minimum of 8 characters, 1 Upper Case Letter, 1 Lower Case Letter, and 1 Numeric Field.
Fill in the captcha code, and click "Register".

Step 2: Login
Visit the Login Page and click "Login", and then fill in the credentials received on your registered Email ID and the registered Mobile Number.

Step 3: Form Filling
After successfully logging in, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click on the concerned scheme from the dropdown.
On the next page, hover over "Apply Online" in the top ribbon, and then click on "New Application" from the dropdown.
Fill in all the mandatory fields of the Application Form. Carefully review all the information provided, acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy, and then click "Proceed".
Note down the reference number appearing on the screen and then click "Close".

Step 4: Upload Documents
Now, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click "Upload Documents" from the dropdown.
On the next page, provide the Application ID and click "Submit".
On the next page, upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size.
After uploading the documents, click "View" to verify the documents uploaded for correctness.

Step 5: Submission
Fill in all the checkboxes appearing at the bottom of the screen and then click "Submit Application".
The message regarding the submission of the online application to GM/DIC / RJD will be received on your mobile phone.

(Optional) Step 6: Track Application Status
You can check the status of your application here. The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.

Time Limit for Filing Application
Within 6 months from the date of listing on the SME Exchange.
Documents Required
Copy of UDYAM Registration Certificate.
Attested Copy of Tangedco Meter Card.
if the Enterprise is Functioning in Its Own Land: Copy of the Land Purchase Deed, Duly Signed by the Applicant.
if the Enterprise is Functioning in a Leased Land/building: Copy of the Lease Agreement Deed Executed in Stamp Paper of ₹ 100/-, for a Minimum Period of 11 Months From the Date of Commencement of Commercial Production.
Copy of Machinery Invoice.
Copy of First Sale Invoice Raised After the Commencement of Commercial Production.
Copy of Sme Exchange Registration.
Copy of Proof of Listing in Exchange.
Proof of Details of Expenditure Incurred for Listing in Exchange [certified by Chartered Accountant].
*The file type should be PDF (.pdf). The file size should be less than 200 kb.
