Snehayanam Scheme For Mothers Of Persons With Special Needs
Kerala
Auto RickshawBPLDisabilityLivelihoodMotherPwDWidow
Details
The scheme “Snehayanam Scheme for Mothers of Persons with Special Needs” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, Electric Auto Rickshaws will be provided free of cost to mothers of persons with disabilities who suffer financially. This scheme would provide a means of livelihood for such beneficiaries. During the initial phase of the scheme, 2 beneficiaries from each district will be selected for this scheme.
            The task of caring for and providing rehabilitation support for persons with autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities can be stressful and daunting for parents, especially mothers. Such persons with disabilities (PwDs) coming under the purview of the National Trust Act 1999 always require special care and attention since they cannot perform their day-to-day activities without someone else’s assistance. Sometimes taking care of such PwDs can be quite challenging for widowed or divorced mothers with no other source of permanent income.

Benefits
Under the scheme, Electric Auto Rickshaws will be provided free of cost to mothers of persons with disabilities who suffer financially.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
Widowed/legally divorced/ wives abandoned by husbands are eligible to apply under this scheme.
The mothers of PwDs covered under the National Trust Act (NTA) will be eligible to apply under this scheme.
The applicants should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category and do not have a source of steady income.
The beneficiaries must possess a valid 3-wheeler license.
The age limit of the applicant has to be 55 years or below.
Note 01: The tax and insurance for the vehicles will have to be borne by the beneficiary.
Note 02: The vehicle must be registered solely in the name of the beneficiary and the vehicle ownership cannot be transferred or sold.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest District Social Justice Office and collect the application form. The application form can also be downloaded from the official website of the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala.
Step 02: The applicant needs to fill out the application form completely.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with supporting documents has to be submitted through District Social Justice Officers concerned.
Documents Required
Copy of Aadhaar/ Proof of Identity of applicant
Passport size photo
Copy of Ration card
Declaration from Village Officer/ Valid document proving that the applicant is widowed/legally divorced/ wife abandoned by husband
Copy of 3-wheeler license
Copy of Medical Board certificate of PwD
