Green Business Scheme
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
Battery Electric VehicleCompressed Air VehicleCoverageIncome GenerationLoanPoly HousesSolar Energy Gadgets
Details
The Green Business Scheme has been launched by the National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC) to provide financial assistance in the form of loans for activities that can tackle the impacts of climate change and also be income-generating. The income-generating activities that could mitigate the Green House effect or could be classified under adaptation initiatives, would be covered under the scheme.
Indicative schemes 
Battery  electric vehicle(E-rickshaw), Compressed air vehicle, Solar energy gadgets, Poly houses.
Quantum of loan 
90% of the Unit cost with a maximum of Rs. 2 lac. Quantum of loan shall, however, be reduced to the extent of the amount of subsidy available, if any. 
Promoters’ contribution 
10% of the unit cost

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance 
National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC) would provide need-based loans under the scheme as permissible under the NSFDC Term Loan Lending Policy, promoter contribution, and after taking into consideration the margin money being provided by Special Central Assistance (SCA), subsidies provided by other government agencies, and subsidies provided to below poverty line (BPL) beneficiaries under the Central-Sector Scheme of Special Central Assistance to the Special Component Plan, to the extent of ₹ 10,000/- or 50% of the unit cost, whichever is less. 
Interest Rates
Scheme Unit Cost Maximum Loan Limit up to 90% of unit Cost Interest per Annum Interest per Annum



SCA/CA Beneficiary
Green Business Scheme (GBS) Up to Rs. 7.50 Lakh Rs. 6.75 lakh 2% 4%

Above Rs. 7.50 lakh & up to Rs. 15.00 lakh Rs. 13.50 lakh 3% 6%

Above Rs. 15.00 lakh & up to Rs. 30.00 lakh Rs. 27.00 lakh 4% 7%
*(1% Rebate from NSKFDC share of interest in case of Female Beneficiaries.)

Repayment
The loan under the scheme shall be repaid in quarterly installments, within a maximum period of 10 years including moratorium period of 06 months. In addition, 120 days moratorium period is allowed to SCA for fund utilization.
Eligibility
Safai Karamcharis, Scavengers, and their Dependents are eligible for the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online
The beneficiaries submit the loan applications to the District Offices of State Channelizing Agencies (SCAs) of NSKFDC, Branches of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs), and Nationalized Banks. The District Offices of SCAs/Branches of RRBs/Nationalised Banks send these applications after scrutiny to their Head Offices. The viability of the project proposals is being appraised by the SCAs/ RRBs/Nationalised Banks and the viable projects are sent to NSKFDC along with their recommendations.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Driving License 
Bank Details
Caste Certificate
Income Certificate
Domicile Certificate 
