Promotion And Development Of Tea Tourism Infrastructure In Assam
Assam
Financial AssistanceGardenInfrastructureTeaTourism
Details
Assam tea and the tea estates of Assam have enormous tourism prospects. However, the potentiality of tea tourism has remained unexplored in its actual terms. The tea gardens of Assam with their lush greenery, iconic bungalows, and the tanned ethnic people with their distinct rhythmic music and dance carry potentialities to attract both domestic and international tourist interests and can present a magnificent revenue opportunity to the state. Considering the enormous potentiality of tea tourism in Assam, it is proposed to develop 50 selective Tea Gardens as Tourism destinations in a Mission Mode approach.
              The development of tea tourism in Assam, besides sustaining the environment and preserving the heritage and culture, will benefit the state by creating employment opportunities and boosting the rural economy.
                        Considering the huge potentialities of tea tourism in Assam, the Government of Assam launched the scheme “Promotion and Development of Tea Tourism Infrastructure in Assam” which broadly includes the overall experience of tourists in the midst of a tea garden or state, with accommodation facility in an iconic bungalow with modern amenities. The scope of the scheme will include trekking in the natural beauty of a lush tea garden, undertaking a tea-testing session, visiting a modern tea factory and even trying one’s hand at plucking tea leaves, etc. All components to be undertaken under the scheme will be need-based. Moreover, the probable activities under the scheme may be as follows:-
a) Renovation of heritage bungalows.
b) Renovation of heritage tea guest houses.
c) Renovation of the front side of the tea garden depicting all modern tea tourism implications.
d) Dining hall/cafeteria with all modern amenities.
e) Development of swimming pool/spa as part of the facility.
f) Facilities including angling, boating, water fountain, etc.
g) Recreation facility/yoga center.
h) Development of golf courses.
i) Installation of solar lights.
j) Involvement of local youths in proposed tea tourism activities to be developed.
k) Facilities like tea testing shall be developed.
l) Any other facility deemed fit to be incorporated for boosting tea tourism.

The assistance or sharing pattern under the scheme is 50:50 (Government’s share: Beneficiary share). The selected Tea Gardens will be the beneficiaries under the scheme, with an upper ceiling of ₹ 2 Crore as Govt. Share. 
Monitoring: The scheme will be implemented by Assam Tourism Development Corporation (ATDC) and monitored by State Level Committee (SLC).
Fund Flow: Funds i.e. Government’s share will be released in three installments to the beneficiaries in the following manner:
A. First Instalment: First installment which is 20 % of the eligible subsidy under the scheme will be released on completion of 30% of the total estimated project work based on the progress report to be submitted by the concerned Engineers of implementing agency.
B. Second Instalment: Second installment which is 40 % of the eligible subsidy under the scheme will be released on completion of 70% of the total estimated project work based on the progress report to be submitted by the concerned Engineers of implementing agency.
C. Third and final Instalment: 3rd and final installment i.e. 40% will be released after completion of the approved works and submission of the final progress report, bill, etc. duly certified by the concerned Engineers indicating that the beneficiary tea garden has completed 100% project activities.
For the release of the Third and final installment, the following documents are to be submitted along with the fund release proposal:
• Submission of photographs of pre-development, during development, and post-development stage signed by the site engineer.
•  Submission of Geo-tagging records of the project (if applicable).
•  Submission of 100% work completion reports.

Benefits
The scheme will upgrade the existing tourist infrastructure of the Tea Garden.
The scheme will encourage private tea companies to promote tea tourism in the State.
The scheme will help to develop modern amenities to attract tourists from all over the world.
The scheme will help to develop coordination amongst the tea stakeholders including state tourist operators for flourishing tea –tourism.
The scheme will promote tea tourism promotional activities such as plucking tealeaves, going on nature walks, trekking and rafting, and even play of golf, etc.
Focusing cultural and socio-economic scenario of the Tea Tribes of Assam worldwide for tourist attraction.
Local traditions like food, attire, and handicrafts will be promoted.
Eligibility
While selecting the tea gardens for boosting tea tourism in the state, the following selection criteria would be followed:-
Private Tea Garden companies’ Garden owners can apply.
If the tea garden is on a lease, then, the leaseholder can also apply subject to the lease period in hand being a minimum of 15 years from the date of application.
Tea Garden company/Garden owner/ lease holder must be willing to undertake a tea tourism scheme.
Tea Gardens which are iconic/heritage will be preferred.
The ideal size of the tea garden should be 50 hectares and above. In the case of the hill district, the ideal size may be reduced to 25 hectares.
Tea Gardens must be free from all kinds of disputes, free from encroachment, and industrial pollution.
Tea Gardens situated nearest to the reserved forest, wildlife sanctuaries, and National Parks as well as other existing major tourist destinations/circuits, will be preferred.
Tea gardens which have many more existing tourist infrastructures, especially iconic bungalows, golf courts, etc. shall be preferred.
Assistance will be given only for the renovation of iconic bungalows and newly created tourism infrastructures.
For employment purposes in tea tourism-related activities dependent on Tea Garden, workers will be given preference.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Assam Tourism Development Corporation Ltd., will give wide publicity through open advertisements in daily newspapers, electronic media, etc. as per the norms. The applicant must check on a regular basis these sources of information.
Step 02: The interested and eligible applicants shall apply in the prescribed format to be issued by the Managing Director, Assam Tourism Development Corporation Ltd., Guwahati, and will submit the same along with all supporting documents as specified.
Step 03: Each individual tea garden meeting the eligibility criteria will apply for benefits under the scheme and come up with a presentation on the proposed infrastructure to be developed along with the estimated cost to be presented before the Selection Committee.
Step 04: The application shall be scrutinized by the State Level Committee (SLC) for the selection of Tea Gardens to be undertaken under the project.
Step 05: Once scrutiny is done, a physical inspection of the sites will be carried out by ATDC.
Step 06: After scrutiny and physical inspection, the list of eligible tea gardens will be approved by the SLC for further implementation of the scheme.
Step 07: SLC will act as the Guiding Force in all aspects for the effective implementation of the scheme.
Documents Required
Voter, PAN & Aadhar card: Identity documents of the applicant
Roadmap: A sketch or snapshot of Google Maps, showing the way to the location from the nearest prominent place or from the main road.
No objection certificate from circle officer/DC.
Police Verification Report of the applicant.
Tourist place photos: proximate tourist attractions/place of interest photographs
Demand Draft of ₹ 5000/- (Non-Refundable) with the Form in favour of Managing Director, Assam Tourism Development Corporation Ltd., Guwahati.
Proper Land documents of the tea garden. (certified copy of deed/land document (patta/namjari))
Lease agreement in case of tea garden on lease.
Copy the Site plan etc. of the tea garden.
Site photographs: the desired location for photographs
Passport Photos: 1 copy self-attached photograph stick on the form and two other photographs self-attached along with Form No. on the back side to be pinned with form.
Photocopy of the form: need two sets of forms (1 set original + 1 set photocopy).
Envelope: 1 no. self-addressed envelope.
A self-contained proposal on Tea tourism clearly indicates the work to be done for making the tea garden a tea tourism spot so that all the recreational infrastructures are highlighted.
Undertaking pertaining to compliance with all the norms and/or provisions of the implementing Guidelines.
Balance sheets of the tea garden for the last five years to be duly certified by the CA.
Financial soundness certificate.
