Exposure Visits of Government of Odisha Delegates/Representatives to Singapore and Dubai
Odisha
DelegateDubaiSingaporeVisit
Details
The scheme "Exposure Visits of Government of Odisha Delegates/ Representatives to Singapore and Dubai" was launched by the Department of Tourism, Government of Odisha. This scheme is about organizing exposure trips of delegates nominated by various departments of the Government of Odisha to two cities Dubai and Singapore, through direct flights to these cities from Bhubaneswar. These direct flights are operated by M/s Indigo Airlines, with whom the Government of Odisha in the Department of Commerce and Transport has entered into an agreement to that effect. The proposed scheme will be funded by the Department of Tourism, Government of Odisha.
Objective:
The main objective of the scheme is to build the capacity of the delegates, giving an out-of-the-box learning platform through visiting institutes of eminence, organizations, and infrastructure projects of the two international cities, Dubai and Singapore, and also support the flights with sustainable passenger load since these direct flights are supported by the Government of Odisha.
Target Beneficiaries:
The target beneficiaries of the scheme are select groups, delegates, and representatives of the Government of Odisha. The following departments have been identified as potential beneficiaries:
Representatives / Delegates from Departments of Mission Shakti; Skill Development and Technical Education; Women and Child Development; Sports and Youth Services; Health and Family Welfare; Panchayati Raj and Drinking Water; Housing and Urban Development; and any other departments as the Government of Odisha may decide from time to time.
The scheme may also include officers nominated by any department of the Government of Odisha who have demonstrated exceptional work and contributed in their respective fields, or any other public representatives as may be nominated by the Government of Odisha.

Benefits
The exposure visits under this scheme offer a unique opportunity for government officials / selected delegates/representatives of Odisha to build their capacity by gaining invaluable experience, expanding their knowledge, and fostering partnerships with international entities. The scheme as such contributes to the overall growth and development of the state in tourism and other fields.
The entire cost of the exposure trips under this scheme shall be borne by the Government of Odisha. The representatives or delegates who will be traveling under this scheme to Singapore / Dubai are not required to pay anything for the tours.
Note: The number of trips and delegates may vary depending upon the circumstances extraneous to the Government/ Department, or as may be decided by the Government from time to time.
Facilities for the Delegates under this scheme:
The delegates will be provided necessary support for obtaining their passports and visas.
The delegates will be provided insurance coverage and air tickets for these exposure trips.
Lodging and boarding at the destination will be provided to all delegates for the trip duration.
The delegates will be provided guided tours/ exposure visits at the destinations.
A lump-sum allowance of 500 AED (United Arab Emirates Dirhams) and 190 SGD (Singapore Dollars) shall be given to each delegate for trips to Dubai and Singapore respectively.
Transportation to and from the native district HQ of the delegate to 
Bhubaneswar, and facilitation for departure and arrival at Biju Patnaik International Airport (BPIA), Bhubaneswar shall be provided.
Eligibility
The delegate should have completed 18 years of age on the date of travel.
The delegate should have the requisite physical fitness to undertake the journey, and should not be suffering from any communicable disease as of the date of travel.
The delegate should be duly nominated by a Department of Government of Odisha.
Role and Responsibilities of the Delegates:
The delegates shall provide correct and true details and documents as may be required by the concerned nominating departments, the Department of Tourism, OTDC, passport authorities, and the visa granting authorities.
The delegates shall be personally responsible for abiding by the law of the country they will be traveling to under this scheme.
The delegates shall be personally responsible in case of theft of their belongings during the trip.
The delegates shall be personally responsible for abiding by the customs and immigration rules of India as well as UAE and Singapore, whichever may be applicable.
The delegates shall follow the travel advisory issued by the Department of Tourism in letter and spirit and conduct themselves during the trip in a manner that will not tarnish the image of the State of Odisha in a foreign country.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The prescribed format for the nomination of delegates is given in Annexure-I.
Step 02: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, affix the passport-sized photograph and attach copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 03: Concerned Departments shall nominate delegates/ representatives, and share the list of nominated delegates along with necessary documents well in advance at least 02 (two) months before the travel (trip starting) date with the Department of Tourism / Odisha Tourism Development Corporation.
Step 04: The concerned departments shall nominate a delegate only once for the scheme.
Step 05: The concerned Department shall also be responsible for the submission of feedback forms of the delegates nominated by them, in the prescribed format to the Department of Tourism. (Attached as Annexure Il to the guideline)
Documents Required
1. Copy of Aadhaar Card
2. Passport details
3. PAN Card
4. Passport Size Photograph
5. Any other documents, as required
