Swami Vivekananda Single Girl Child Fellowship For Research In Social Sciences
Ministry of Education
FellowshipResearchSingle Girl Child
Details
A fellowship scheme by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for Single Girl Child for research in Social Sciences with an aim to compensate for direct costs of higher education, especially for such girls who happen to be the only girl child in their family.

The objectives of the proposed scheme are:
1. To support the higher education of single girl child in Social Sciences.
2. To recognize the value of observance of the small family norms.
3. To recognize the norm of single girl child in society.
4. To propagate the concept of single girl child norm.
5. Promoting single girls in society.

The girl students who are admitted to Ph. D. programs in Social Sciences in Universities/Colleges/Institutes and happen to be the only girl child in the family without having any brother or sister. The girl student who is twin daughters/fraternal daughter may also apply for fellowship under the aforesaid scheme.

The financial assistance available under the scheme is as follows:
Fellowship @ ₹25,000/- per month for the Initial two years; @ Rs. 28,000/- per month for the remaining tenure.
Contingency @ ₹10,000/- per annum for initial two years; @ Rs. 20,500/- per annum for remaining tenure.
Escort Reader Assistance @ ₹2,000/- per month in case of PWD candidates.

Benefits
Financial Assistance
The financial assistance available under the scheme is as follows:
1.  Fellowship @ ₹25,000/- per month for the Initial two years; @ Rs. 28,000/- per month for the remaining tenure.
2.  Contingency @ ₹10,000/- per annum for initial two years; @ Rs. 20,500/- per annum for remaining tenure.
3.  Escort Reader Assistance @ ₹2,000/- per month in case of PWD candidates.

Slots
The number of slots for the fellowship may be decided every year on the basis of eligible applications
complete in all respects, received through online mode.

Tenure
The tenure of the fellowship is for five years and will be effective from 1st April of the selection year or the actual date of joining under the fellowship in the University/College/Institute, whichever is later. Fellowship will be granted up to the date of submission of Ph.D. Thesis or 5 years of tenure whichever is earlier. No extension is permissible beyond the total period of five years, and the fellow ceases to be a UGC research fellow immediately after the expiry of the due date.

HRA
Suitable single-seated hostel accommodation may be provided to the candidates in the institutions. In such cases, the fellow is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Director/Principal. HRA is not permissible for those candidates who are staying in Hostel accommodation.

In case of non-availability of hostel accommodation, the fellow may be provided with single accommodation by the host institution. In such cases, the rent paid by the fellow on an actual basis may be reimbursed subject to the ceiling of HRA as per Govt. of India norms.

If the fellow makes her own arrangements of accommodation, she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Govt. of India.

Note: In all the above cases, the fellow will submit a relevant certificate (Annexure-VI) through the concerned University/College/Institute to the identified Agency for settling the claim.

Medical
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the fellow may avail of the medical facilities available in the Universities/Colleges/Institutes.

Leave
1. Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to the public holidays that may be taken by the candidate. However, they are not entitled to any other vacation, such as summer, winter, and pooja vacations.
2. Maternity leave as per the Govt. of India norms issued from time to time would be available at full rates of the fellowship once during the tenure of their award.
3. Academic leave (without fellowship and other emoluments) shall be permissible only for one year throughout the tenure (for any kind of academic/teaching assignment/foreign visit in connection with research work). The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure. Expenditure on foreign visits in connection to research work cannot be claimed by UGC

Note: All kinds of leave should be approved at the level of the University/College/Institute.
Eligibility
1. Any single girl child of her parents pursuing a Ph.D. in Social Sciences in Universities/Colleges/ Institutes is eligible to apply under the scheme. In a family, if one son and one daughter are available then the girl child will not be considered for fellowship under the scheme.

2. The scheme is applicable to such a single girl child who has registered herself in regular, full-time Ph. D. program in Social Sciences in Indian Universities/Colleges/Institutes as indicated below:
 Universities/Colleges/Institutes included under section 2(f) and 12(b) of UGC Act, 1956.
 Deemed to be Universities under section 3 of the UGC Act 1956 which are eligible to
receive grants in aid from UGC.
 Universities/Colleges/Institutes funded by Central/ State Govt.
 Institutes of National Importance.

3. Admission to Ph.D. Course in Distance education mode is not covered under the scheme.

4. Girl students up to the age of 40 years for the general category and 45 years for the reserved categories i.e. SC/ST/OBC and PWD (Persons with Disabilities) as on the last date of submission of online application are eligible.

5. Transgender candidates are eligible to apply under the scheme as per the norms.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded to the UGC website i.e.
www.ugc.ac.in.

Note: Candidates have to apply strictly as per the instructions given in the online portal. Incomplete applications will not be considered.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number
Proof of Identity
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate or Marksheet of Class 10th)
Bank Details
Proof of pursuing Ph.D. in Social Sciences
Passport Size Photograph
Caste Certificate (if applicable)
Disability Certificate (if applicable)
Transgender ID Card (if applicable)
Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted on an affidavit ofRs.50/- Stamp paper from the fellow/parent duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Gazetted Officer (not below the rank of Tahsildar) as per the prescribed proforma (Annexure I) at the time of filling out the online application.
