Gharaunda-Group Home for Adults Scheme
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
AbandonedGroup HomeLife Long ShelterPerson With DisabilityRespite And Residential Care
Details
Gharaunda-Group Home for Adults scheme, launched by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities,aims at setting up Gharaunda Centres or Registered Organisations (RO) for for all Adult PwDs covered under the National Trust Act with adequate and quality care service with acceptable living standards including provision of basic medical care from professional doctors.

The objective of Gharaunda scheme is to provide an assured home and minimum quality of care services throughout the life of the person with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities and ensure the following for them:
• Facilitate establishment of requisite infrastructure for the assured care system throughout the country
• Encourage assisted living with independence and dignity
• Provide care services on a sustainable basis

Benefits
An assured home and minimum quality of care services throughout the life of the PwD.
Adequate and quality care service with acceptable living standards including provision of basic medical care from professional doctors.
Vocational activities, pre-vocational activities and assistance for further training.
Eligibility
Eligibility criteria for the PwD:
PwD should be more than 18 years of age.
PwD should have one of the disabilities under the National Trust Act, 1999, which are Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities.

Eligibility criteria for Registered Organization:
Applicant should be registered with the National Trust.
Applicant should have a valid registration under the PwD Act 1995, at the time of enrolment.
The group home land should either be owned by RO or should have lease of at least 10 years with provision of renewal.
RO should have minimum 2 years of experience of working with Persons with Disabilities (PwD) with at least one year experience in one of the four disabilities under the National Trust Act.
RO should not be blacklisted by the National Trust or any other Government Organization on the date of submission of scheme enrolment form.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Enrolment of PwD at the Gharaunda Centre
Step 1: PwD arrives at or is brought to the Gharaunda Centre.
Step 2: Gharaunda Centre conducts an Individual PwD Assessment Test with a Therapist or Counsellor to understand specific needs.
Step 3: If PwD is orphaned, abandoned, or from a family in crisis, the RO certifies and enrolls the PwD with Gharaunda. Automatic inclusion in BPL category and enrollment for Niramaya.
Step 4: For other cases, check eligibility for LIG or BPL funding by the National Trust. Funding based on RO-provided information, subject to verification.
Step 5: Parents or guardians fill Enrolment Form, submit documents, and pay the application fee if required.
Step 6: Upon successful verification, PwD enrolled at Gharaunda with ID card, starter kit, and details provided by Gharaunda representatives.
Step 7: Gharaunda representatives provide insight on Niramaya health insurance scheme to parents/guardians. Mandatory registration under Niramaya, confirmed by Certification from parents or guardians
Documents Required
Enrolment of the PwD:
Enrolment form.
Birth certificate or Date of Birth proof of the PwD.
Disability certificate.
BPL certificate or Income certificate of Parent or Guardian issued by competent authority as authorized by the concerned State/ Union Territory (for LIG or BPL family).
ID proof of parent or guardian.
LG certificate in case parents are not the guardians,   OR
LG certificate, if PwD>18 years of age and parents are not the guardians.

Enrolment of the Registered Organization(RO):
Documents fulfilling the eligibility criteria
Address Proof, Title deed/Ownership certificate/lease deed
Bank details specifying the Bank account no., Name of the Account Holder, Name of the Bank, Name of the Branch and IFSC code etc.
Date of issue and Date of Expiry of Registration of the RO under PwD Act 1995.
Self-Declaration by RO regarding current setup listing out the following:
Existing facilities and infrastructure.
Current set of activities being undertaken.
Staffing including qualification and experience
Scheme proposal including.
Staffing: Special educators, therapists, caregivers, support staff (2 months).
Infrastructure: Activity rooms, vocational rooms, recreation rooms, medical rooms, lodging, kitchen, office (1 month).
Disability provisions: Accessible premises, toilets, furniture, fixtures.
