Toposili Bandhu (Old Age Pension) Scheme
West Bengal
Financial AssistancePensionSocial Welfare
Details
Launched on 1st April 2020, “Toposili Bandhu (Old Age Pension)” is a Social Security Scheme by the Tribal Development Department, Government of West Bengal. The main objective of the scheme to provide the financial assistance to old age person who are belongs to the scheduled caste category of West Bengal State. 

Benefits
Pension : ₹1,000/- per month. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of West Bengal.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste (SC) category.
The applicant should have attained the age of 60 years or more.
The applicant should not be a beneficiary under any other Social Security pension scheme.
The applicant should not be a recipient of Government pension or pension from any other organization.
Application Process
Offline
The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the office of Block Development Officer (BDO) / Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) / Kolkata Municipal Corporation.
In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at:
Office of the BDO in rural areas.
Office of the SDO in Municipalities and notified areas
Commissioner Kolkata Municipal Corporation in KMC areas.
Documents Required
Passport Size Photograph.
Formal Caste or Tribe Certificate: If unavailable, a Caste/Tribe certificate of any paternal relative is acceptable for the initial assessment. However, the applicant must procure their caste certificate later and submit the same subsequently.
Digital Ration Card.
EPIC (Elector's Photo Identity Card)/Voter Card.
Self-Attested Residential Certificate/Address Proof.
Copy of Bank Passbook.
Aadhaar Card.
