The Punjab Financial Assistance to Acid Victims Scheme
Punjab
Acid VictimFinancial AssistanceWoman
Details
The scheme “The Punjab Financial Assistance to Acid Victims Scheme” was launched by the Department of Social Security And Women & Child Development, Government of Punjab in the year 2017. The objective of the Scheme is to provide monthly Financial Assistance to females who have been rendered 40% disabled due to acid attack. This scheme is fully state-sponsored.

Benefits
The Financial Assistance of ₹8,000/- per month is given to rehabilitate the victims of acid attack and make them self-reliant.
Note: The amount of payment is directly transferred to the account of the beneficiary by the directorate online.
Eligibility
The acid attack victim should be a resident of Punjab State.
The females who have been rendered 40% disabled due to acid attack are eligible for the assistance.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
The victim or victim's parents/guardian/legal heir/family member/any relative may submit an application to the concerned District Social Security Officer.
Note 01: The application is to be submitted to the District Social Security Officer.
Note 02: The application must be supported by a medical certificate duly issued by the Civil Surgeon.
Note 03: The ease for sanction of financial assistance to the victim shall be considered upon submission of an application to the concerned District Social Security Officer either by the victim herself or by her guardian /heir/family member/any relative, in a case where the victim has been rendered so disabled due to acid attack that she is not in a position to make an application herself.
Grievances Redressal: District Social Security Officer
Sanction of Cases-
Step 01: On receipt of the application, the District Social Security Officer, after completing documentary formalities, shall immediately, and under no circumstances later than one week, submit the case to the Deputy Commissioner, who shall call the meeting of the District Level Committee within 7 days of the submission of the case by the District Social Security Officer.
Step 02: The District Level Committee, upon being satisfied that the applicant is eligible for financial assistance under the scheme shall sanction the case. If the committee is of the view that the case is liable to be rejected, the committee may reject the same after recording reasons for the same. Intimation of sanction or rejection of the application shall be sent to the applicant.
Step 03: It is clarified that under all circumstances, an application for the grant of financial assistance under the scheme shall be disposed of within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the case from the District Social Security Officer.
Step 04: The disbursement of the benefit under the scheme shall be payable with effect from the month wherein the incident of acid attack occurred or the date of publication of this notification, whichever is later, and the same shall be made only through the victim's Bank Account.
Appeal:
An applicant aggrieved of the decision of the District Level Committee may submit an appeal to the Director, Department of Social Security and Development of Women & Children, Punjab within 15 days of the decision, who shall dispose of the same within one month by passing an appropriate order.
Documents Required
An applicant shall be required to submit the following documents with the application:-
A medical certificate to the effect that the applicant has been rendered disabled due to an acid attack
Copy of F.I.R/ complaint
An attested copy of any one of the documents- Voter list, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Aadhaar card, Passport, Driving License, Residence certificate
Particulars of the Bank Account of the applicant (along with the IFSC Code and Aadhaar Card No., if available)
Any other document, as required
Note: Medical certificate must have been issued by a certifying authority prescribed under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 as amended from time to time, or under the corresponding provision of an enactment coming into force at a later stage as a replacement of the above-mentioned Act.
