Prathibha Scholarship Programme
Kerala
InternshipPostgraduateScholarshipStudentUndergraduate
Details
Scholarships are awarded to students of Kerala origin who have qualified meritoriously in the Higher Secondary Examination, for pursuing Undergraduate and Postgraduate degree courses in Basic/ Natural Science in Institutions/ Universities in India.  The objective of the programme is to motivate aspiring students to higher studies and a career in Science.
           Prathibha Scholarship Programme is aimed at motivating bright Students to higher studies in Science by awarding Scholarships. Prathibha Scholars are also provided opportunities to attend Science Orientation Programmes and interact with pioneers in Science through the Student Programme for Excellence in Experimental Design (SPEED) scheme. Students are selected for Prathibha Scholarship at Under-graduate level based on the marks obtained by them for all Science subjects in the Higher Secondary Examination. The applicants should have secured admission for 3-year U.G/5-year Integrated P.G programme in Basic/Natural Sciences. Scholarship is applicable for maximum 5 years including U.G and P.G courses/Integrated P.G course subject to renewal norms as per guidelines.

Benefits
1. Scholarship is awarded for studies in Basic / Natural Sciences.
2. The selected students are eligible for scholarship as follows.
(a) U.G. Course/ First 3 years of Integrated P.G. Course:
1st Year -  ₹12,000/-
2nd Year -  ₹18,000/-
3rd Year -  ₹24,000/-
(b) P.G. Course (subject to scoring minimum 75% marks for Undergraduate course)
1st Year/ 4th Year of Integrated P.G. Course   -  ₹40,000/-
2nd Year/ 5th Year of Integrated P.G. Course  -  ₹60,000/-      
3. Offers opportunities for attending Science Enrichment Programmes and summer internships in reputed National and State level R&D institutions in Kerala.
4. Eight Prathibha Scholars (two scholars in each of the disciplines- Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics) are eligible to be considered for summer programmes at IISER-Trivandrum. The selection of Prathibha Scholars for summer programmes is subject to the norms of IISER-Trivandrum.
Eligibility
Applicant should be of Kerala origin.
Applicant should have qualified Higher Secondary Examination from Kerala.
Applicant should have qualified Higher Secondary Board Examination with minimum 90% marks or equivalent grade for all subjects put together and minimum 90% marks or equivalent grade for all Science subjects put together. (For SC/ST reservation category, the eligibility is stipulated to minimum marks of 80% or equivalent grade for all subjects in total and minimum 80% marks or equivalent grade for all Science subjects in total).
Applicant should have secured admission for 3 year B.Sc. / 5 year Integrated M.Sc. / 5 year Integrated BS-MS course in Basic or Natural Science (23 subjects enlisted in the ‘guidelines’) in any of the Institutions or Universities in India.
Note 01: Students are selected at Undergraduate level only.
Note 02: Selection is based on the aggregate marks obtained for all science subjects in the Higher Secondary Examination.
Note 03: Those who have availed Prathibha Scholarship for all 3 years of Undergraduate Course and have qualified Degree Course with minimum 75% marks are eligible to continue the scholarship for Postgraduate course.
Note 04: The scheme ensures at least 50% of the selection for girl students. 10% of the selection is reserved for SC/ST students.
Note 05: Scholarships are allotted with the weightage of 30% for mathematical science, 40% for Physical Science and 30 % for Life Sciences based on the subject main chosen for the Degree course. Students in Triple-main courses are ranked in all three subject areas and are selected based on their top ranking position.
Application Process
Online
Online Registration:
Step 01: Applicant should Register Online before the stipulated date as per the notification issued by KSCSTE.
Step 02: Applicant should ensure the following before commencement of Online Registration.
i. A valid Mobile number and E-mail ID accessible to him/her during the entire stage of selection process.
ii. A recent passport size photograph image of dimension 150W ×200H pixels.
Step 03: Applicant should enter their Name, Date of Birth, E-mail ID and HSE Roll Number to commence online registration.
Step 04: Applicant should enter the OTP received through mobile and should enter a password of minimum 6 characters to continue registration.
Step 05: An Application number will be generated on successful registration. This number and the chosen password will be sent to the registered mobile number of the applicant, which should be used for future login.
Application Process:
Step 01: Application for Prathibha scholarship is accepted only through online submission and students should apply through Prathibha scholarship Web Portal.
Step 02: On the basis of application submitted by the applicant, the Kerala State Council For Science, Technology And Environment (KSCSTE) will prepare the Provisional Selection List (PSL).
Step 03: On publication of PRL by KSCSTE, the selected students in the main PRL should upload relevant documents in the Prathibha scholarship web portal for confirmation of scholarship and final selection.
Step 04: The final Rank List will be prepared after verification of documents.
Selection Procedure:
Step 01: Ranking is made based on the aggregate marks secured in Higher Secondary Board Examination for all four Science subjects.
Step 02: Eligible applicants are grouped under the three Broad Subject Groups viz., Mathematical Sciences, Physical Sciences and Life Sciences, based on the subject chosen as ‘Main’ for the Degree Course.
Step 03: Applicants studying for “Triple-main” subjects for their U.G/Integrated P.G course have to opt the subject category to be considered for ranking. Once the application is submitted for consideration under a particular Subject-category, the option cannot be changed.
Step 04: Applicants under each Subject-category are ranked separately and the total number of scholarships are proportioned with 30% for Mathematical Sciences, 40% for Physical Sciences and 30% for Life Sciences category. 10% of the total seats are set apart for SC/ST students.
Step 05: Tie on Science-total marks if any, is resolved by prioritizing the marks obtained for science subjects in the following order
i. Mathematical Sciences Group- HSE marks in the order of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Overall marks
ii. Physical Sciences Group- HSE marks in the order of Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Biology, Overall marks
iii. Life Sciences Group- HSE marks in the order of Biology, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Overall marks.
Note 01: The Provisional Rank List will be published in KSCSTE website www.kscste.kerala.gov.in usually during March/April.
Note 02: Only those who submit the above documents within the stipulated time (as published in the website) will be considered for final ranking. Final Rank List (FRL) will be prepared upon verification of documents as per approved guidelines.
Contact Details:
The Head,
Women Scientist Division (WSD)
Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment,
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 4
Tel No. + 91-471-2548208, Fax : 0471 2540085, 2534605
E-mail: wsd1kscste@gmail.com
Documents Required
Identity proof of applicant
Passport size photographs
Student Data-sheet, duly signed by the applicant and endorsed by the Head of the Institution where they are admitted for Degree Course.
Copy of Mark list of Higher Secondary Board Examination- self attested
Community Certificate for SC/ST applicants.
Certificate in proof of ‘Place of Origin’ [Applicant should be of Kerala origin]
"Terms & Conditions”, duly signed
E-payment form- in prescribed format
