Nanda Gaura Yojana
Uttarakhand
EducationEmpowermentFinancial AssistanceWomen
Details
The state government will give money to the girl child from birth till her marriage so that she can get the best education and be independent. 
The main objective is to stop female feticide, stop child marriage, remove lagging inequality in the society, and make them self-reliant by providing higher education. Benefits will be given to the girl's eligible families who are permanent residents of Uttarakhand state

To get the benefits of the scheme,  a joint bank account with her mother will be opened in a nationalized bank with zero balance and no clearance. 
If the mother is not alive, then a joint account will be opened with the father. 
And if the mother & father bother are not alive then a joint bank account will open with the guardian of the girl child.
The said account should be linked with the Aadhaar number of the beneficiaries.

Benefits

S No. Phases Amount Payment Mode
1 At the time of Birth Rs. 11,000/- In bank account, through e-payment
5 On passing Class 12th Rs. 51,000/- In bank account, through e-payment

Total Rs. 62,000/-
Eligibility
This scheme is valid only for native/permanent girls of Uttarakhand state.
No more than two girls (living girls) in a family will be benefited. 
It is mandatory to apply for the first phase within 06 months of the birth of the girl child. 
The birth of a girl child should be done in a government hospital / private hospital / ANM center only. (Government hospitals / private hospitals of other states will also be valid) It will be mandatory to attach a certificate to this effect. 
It will be mandatory to attach a copy of the institutional delivery certificate for the birth certificate of the girl child. Delivery conducted by a trained midwife will not be considered an institutional delivery.
November 30 has been fixed as the last date for applying for the benefit of the second phase in every financial year. Applications after this date will not be accepted.
The applicant should ensure that the bank account provided by him is active.
The annual income of the girl child's family should be up to a maximum of Rs. 72,000/- (Rs. 6,000/- monthly) in rural and urban areas. 
Income-related certificate issued by Tehsildar will be valid only, no other certificate will be valid.
Application Process
Online
Applicants have to visit the official web portal.
Now click on the First phase online application process or the Second phase online application process.
The respected application process will open.
Fill out the application form with the required information like (Personal details, bank Details, and Family Details. 
Upload the required Documents.
Submit.
Documents Required
For the First phase application
Permanent residence certificate.
Income certificate of guardian issued by concerned Tehsildar.
Certificate of institutional delivery which is issued by a government hospital / private nursing home or a hospital outside the state. (Delivery by a trained midwife will not be treated as institutional).
Birth Certificate of the girl child.
Aadhaar card of mother/father/guardian.
Copy of the first page of bank passbook of mother/guardian.
Certificate provided by the concerned Anganwadi worker in the prescribed format.

For the Second phase application
Permanent residence certificate.
Income certificate of guardian issued by concerned Tehsildar.
Passing certificate of class 12.
Date of Birth Certificate / Birth Register Certificate.
Aadhaar card of the applicant/beneficiary.
Self-proclaimed unmarried beneficiary certificate.
Information on the first page of the application/beneficiary's bank passbook
Certificate provided by the concerned Anganwadi worker on the prescribed format.
Certificate issued by the school in the prescribed format.
Aadhaar card of the mother of girls.
