Aswasakiranam
Kerala
Financial AssistanceMentally DisabledMoney AssistancePhysically Disabled
Details
Detailed 
Kerala is a state well known for its efficient and effective health care system. Despite these advancements, much headway could not be made in-home care. Most of the lowest income group always opt for homely treatment as they cannot afford the charges levied by the well-known hospitals. They are bedridden causing a heavy social burden on their family members who are forced to stay back at home to look after these bedridden patients. While the upper-income group can possibly afford to engage paid caregivers or home nurses for looking after such bedridden family members, the lower-income group usually take it upon themselves to care for their bedridden brethren. These family members in fact function as informal caregivers, without due recognition or economic gain.

Coverage Of Diseases 
● All bed-ridden patients who need a full-time caregiver.
● Mentally challenged (Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental retardation, Mental illness).
● 100 % blind, bed-ridden cancer patients, old-aged bed-ridden.
● Brittle bone disease.

Benefits
Benefits
Through this scheme financial assistance of Rs 600 per month is provided to those caregivers who look after their physically and mentally bedridden patients.
All those citizens who have been providing caregiving services to the patients since 2nd August 2010 will be provided monthly assistance.
This financial assistance will be apart from the pension given to the patients.
Now the caregivers will not be required to depend on anyone for financial support because the government is going to provide them with monthly assistance which will help them in fulfilling their day-to-day needs.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
One who is totally bedridden and at home with a debilitating disability (physical, functional or mental).
One can not take care of himself/herself for any day-to-day activity without the support of another person.
One who belongs to a family, Below Poverty Line as per the BPL list and as per the ration card.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
First of all, go to the nearest Anganwadi or ICDS office
Take the Application form from here.
Now you have to fill out this application form by entering all the required details.
After that, you have to upload all the required documents
Now you have to submit this form to the nearest Anganwadi Centre or ICDS office.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Medical certificate attested by Govt./ Vayomithram / NRHM doctors.
Attested copy of BPL ration card / BPL certificate issued by Panchayat or Municipality or Corporation / Income certificate issued by village officer as proof for patient income.
Attested copy of Aadhar card/confirmation slip received.
