AICTE-INAE Distinguished Visiting Professorship Scheme
Ministry of Education
Distinguished EngineersEngineer ScientistsFellowshipTechnologistsVisiting Professorship
Details
The Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) launched a Distinguished Visiting Professorship (DVP) Scheme jointly with All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in 1999.The Scheme envisages promotion of industry-institute interaction by facilitating the dissemination of knowledge through the expertise of experienced and knowledgeable personsfrom industry to integrate their rich industrial experience with technical education. The Scheme has received very enthusiastic response from industry and engineering research institutions over the years. Since the year 2018, the scheme has also been made applicable to all retired INAE Fellows.
Objectives:
The Distinguished Visiting Professor under the scheme will:
Deliver lectures on the state-of-art of Industry, industrial ambience and R&D needs of the industry to the students and faculty of AICTE approved engineering colleges/ institutions only.
Guide student projects/ theses of interest to industry.
Help curriculum development, keeping in view, the changing industrial needs.
Develop cooperative undergraduate and postgraduate programmes with industry having potential benefits to faculty, students and Industry.
Take up any other activities for the mutual benefit of engineering institutions and industry.

Benefits
The Distinguished Visiting Professor will be reimbursed air-fare in “Y-Class” or actual fares if performed by Rail or approved INAE rate if travel is performed by Road. 
The Distinguished Visiting Professoris entitled to an honorarium of ₹ 10,000/- per lecture day.
For on-line sessions of DVP Programs, the Experts will be paid only Honorariums of ₹ 10,000/- per day without travelling/lodging expenses based on mutually decided timings between concerned DVPs in association with the concerned Institutes.
Eligibility
The Industry Experts should have a minimum graduate degree in engineering or an equivalent qualification.
The Age of a Distinguished Visiting Professor shall be in the range of 40 to 75 years.
The applicant must have minimum Ten (10) years experience in Industry; and the individual must have distinguished work experience, as evidenced by development of products, technology, processes, patents, publications, awards etc.
All retired INAE Fellows also can apply under this Scheme.
Note: For exceptional cases the Selection Committee may relax age limits.
Application Process
Offline
Kindly visit AICTE Website >> Schemes >> Staff Development Schemes >> "AICTE-INAE Distinguished Visiting Professorship Scheme":  https://www.aicte-india.org/schemes/staff-development-schemes
Click and download the Application form for "AICTE-INAE Distinguished Visiting Professorship Scheme".
Fill in the required information.
Verify that every page of the application form has signature of the Applicant.
Attach all the essential documents along with the Copy of AICTE letter of approval.
. Kindly ensure all the information is correct and then send the Application form along with all the essential documents through registered post/ speed post to:
Executive Director
Indian National Academy of Engineering, Unit
No. 604-609, 6th Floor,
Tower A, SPAZE I-Tech Park, Sector 49,
Sohna Road, Gurgaon - 122018
Phone: 0124-4239480
Fax: 0124-4239481
E-mail: inaehq@inae.in
https://www.inae.in/


Note: Application sent to AICTE Office will not be considered. 
Documents Required
Copy of AICTE letter of approval.
Copy of Educational Qualifications, Degrees obtained, Industrial Experience and any specialized training in research/ design/ management/projects.
Copy of Publications.
Copy of Details of IPR.
Any other documents as required.
Note: 
An Industry Expert/ Retired INAE Fellow desirous of being INAE Distinguished Visiting Professor may fill in Part I of the Format. 
Part II of the Format is to be filled by an AICTE approved Engineering College/Institution.
