Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidhyarti Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
Financial AssitanceHigher EducationStudent Finance
Details
The Government of Madhya Pradesh initiated the Mukhyamantri Medhavi Vidyarthi Yojana. The objective of the scheme is to provide promising career opportunities to meritorious and talented students

Benefits
Under the scheme, admission fee and actual fee (excluding mess fee and caution money) which is approved by Fee Regulatory Committee or M.P. Expenditure at graduation level as fixed by Private University Regulatory Commission or Government of India/State Government as the fee, Only that payment will be made.
Eligibility
The student is a resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The income of the father/guardian of the student is less than Rs.6.00 lakh. 
The student has secured 70% or more marks in the 12th examination conducted by the Board of Secondary education or 85% or more marks in the 12th examination conducted by the CBSE/ICSE.
Student's Entrance Exam Information (Whichever is applicable) 
(i) Has secured a rank up to 1 lakh 50 thousand in JEE Mains examination and has taken admission in BE/B.Tech course.
(ii) Have taken National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to MBBS/BDS course.
(iii) Have taken admission in law course through CLAT (Common Law Admission Test).
(iv) Have taken admission in the medical institutions conducting MBBS/BDS courses of the Central Government on the basis of other entrance examinations.
(v) has taken admission to a law course at the National Law Institute, New Delhi, or the University of Delhi, New Delhi on the basis of his/her own entrance examination.
Application Process
Online
Applicants have to visit the official portal.
Click on Register on Portal under Application.
The application form will appear. 
Fill out the required details.
Attach the required documents (if any).
And Submit
Documents Required
Resident certificate of Madhya Pradesh.
Marks list of 10th and 12th exam.
Income certificate.
Aadhaar number.
Aadhaar-linked bank account in case of admission in aided/ private universities or colleges.
Item-wise fee details and receipt.
