Chief Minister’s Free Diagnostic Services
Assam
CT ScanFree ServicesLaboratory ServicesMedical FacilityQuality Diagnosis
Details
Quality diagnosis is vital for medical practitioners to make effective decisions about treatment. Access and availability of quality Radiology and Laboratory Services have been key challenges for the health system. The out-of-pocket expenditure of patients on diagnostic tests is increasing and forms the second major segment of such expenditure after medicine. Hence, the provisioning of quality diagnostic services (laboratory and radiological services) in public health facilities is critical for ensuring evidence-based care and reducing expenditure.

To address the above issues, Chief Minister's Free Diagnostics Services Programme is envisaged to ensure the availability of a minimum set of diagnostic services at government health institutions. Under Chief Minister's Free Diagnostic Services Programme CT Scan, X-Ray and Laboratory services are provided in the State of Assam free of cost to all patients in Govt. Health Institutions are irrespective of APL/BPL status.

Benefits
1. To provide essential diagnostic services free of cost to all patients visiting government hospitals. No user charges will be levied on the patient.
2. Ensure the availability of a minimum set of diagnostics appropriate to the level of care.
3. Reduce high out-of-pocket expenditure incurred by patients for diagnostics.
4. Use of appropriate diagnostics to screen patients for a set of chronic conditions so as to enable secondary prevention measures.
5. Improve overall quality of healthcare and patient experience as a result of the availability of comprehensive healthcare in public health facilities.
6. Free CT scan services, X-Ray services, and Laboratory services are being implemented in District Hospital, PHCs, CHCs, etc in PPP mode
Eligibility
1. The applicant must be a resident of Assam.
2. The scheme is applicable to individuals of all age groups.
3. There is no specific income criteria, and the scheme is open to all socio-economic backgrounds.
Application Process
Offline
1. Visit the nearest government-authorized diagnostic center or hospital.
2. Fill out the application form for the scheme.
3. Submit the necessary documents along with the application form.
4. Upon verification, the diagnostic tests will be conducted free of cost.
Documents Required
1. Proof of residence in Assam (e.g., Aadhaar card, voter ID, or residence certificate).
2. Medical prescription or recommendation from a registered medical practitioner.
