Short Term Fellowship under the Human Resource Development Programme for Health Research
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
FacultyFellowshipHealth ResearchMedical StudentShort TermTraining
Details
“Short Term Fellowship” under the Human Resource Development Programme for Health Research aims to provide advanced training in India and abroad to medical and health research personnel in cutting-edge research areas related to medicine and health to create trained human resources for carrying out advanced research activities. The scheme is intended to create a pool of talented health research personnel in the country by upgrading the skills of medical students & faculty through specialized training in priority areas of health research in leading national and international institutions, encouraging and supporting the trainees to develop and take up research projects for addressing critical national and local health problems.
Short Term Fellowships:
Short Term Fellowships for Training (1-3 Months) in Indian Institutions to the researchers employed as regular faculty having at least three years experience in the college/institute as a regular employee.
Short Term Fellowships for Training abroad/foreign institutes in identified areas (1-3 Months) to persons employed as regular faculty.
Short Term Specialized Training (1-3 Months) to mid-career or senior-level faculty of Medical Colleges working/involved with three other approved Schemes of DHR.
Objective:
To increase the overall availability of trained personnel for health research from medical colleges across the country through scholarships & fellowships for young medical doctors to take up medical and health research as a career.
To focus on the creation of a cadre of trained medical/health researchers in specific identified priority areas of health research viz., Clinical Trials; Toxicology; Good Clinical Practices (GCP); Good Laboratory Practices (GLP); Quality Control (QC) & QA; Genomics; Proteomics; Clinical Psychology, Geriatrics; Modern Biology; Biotechnology; Stem cells; Genetics; Drugs chemistry; and operational research etc..
To create, support, nurture, and encourage the trainees from these medical colleges to forge linkages with other scientists from universities, research institutes etc. to develop multidisciplinary and multi-sectoral teams necessary for addressing critical national and local health problems.
Areas of Research:
Toxicology, Genomics, Proteomics, Geriatrics, Stem cell research, Clinical Trials, Good Clinical Practices (GCP), Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), Quality Control (QC) and Quality Assurance (QA), Modern Biology, Biotechnology, Genetics, Drugs Chemistry, Operational Research, Health Informatics, Medical Ethics, Disease Modelling, Health Economics, Environmental Health, Mental Health/Clinical Psychology, Any other area recommended by the committee as per National Health Policy/ National Health Goals.

Benefits
Short Term Fellowship (1-3 months) in Indian institutes:
A consolidated stipend of ₹40,000/- per month for a period of stay in the host institute, which is at a different station from the parent Institute. In case, the training is at the same station, the rate of stipend payable will be ₹20,000/- per month.
Expenditure on travel will be as per the T.A. rules of the parent organization.
One-time contingency grant of ₹20,000/- (maximum) to meet the expenses of local taxi charges, attending meetings, etc.
The amount (stipend and contingency) will be placed at the disposal of the parent institute for disbursement to the fellow as per the prescribed norms and the parent institute will submit the utilization certificate under the GFRs for the expenditure incurred.
Short Term Fellowship (1-3 months) in Foreign institutes:
A consolidated stipend of US $ 3000/- per month (or equivalent in other foreign currency) for the period of stay in the host institute abroad.
Cost of air passage in economy class by Air India from the parent institute to the foreign host institute by the shortest possible route.
One-time contingency grant of ₹30,000 (maximum) to meet the expenses of local taxi charges visa fee and Health insurance, attending meetings, etc., and ₹20,000/- for attending progress review meetings at DHR.
A grant of US $ 600 for fellowship duration for attending conferences /institutes of interest may be given with the recommendations of the Guide in the foreign host institute.
The stipend will be given to the ‘selected fellow’ through a bank transaction in the beginning the equivalent amount in Indian Rupees for the first month will be paid to the fellow as an advance stipend
The expenditure incurred in the head ‘contingency’ will be reimbursed to a fellow after the production of the original voucher.
Eligibility
Only Indian citizens working in Indian institutes are eligible.
They should hold M.D./ M.S./ M.D.S. or MBBS/BDS/ MVSc./ M.Sc./M.Pharma/M.Tech or equivalent with Ph.D. in health/biomedical research.
Faculty having at least three years’ experience in the college/institute as a regular employee.
Persons up to 55 years of age as of the last date of receipt of application will be eligible.
They should not have availed any fellowship of the duration of one month or above duration from any of the agencies of Govt. of India / State Governments for the same subject of training/research project.
The fellowship is for 1-3 months. Fellowship is non-transferable.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The full-length research proposals may be submitted online only and no proposal in physical/hard copy is to be submitted w.r.t. the advertisements published in leading newspapers and uploaded on the websites of DHR & ICMR.
Step 02: Open the DHR Electronics Project Management System (e-PMS) Portal.
Step 03: Register yourself in the portal if you are using the e-PMS portal for the first time. The process for registration is e-PMS Login → Register, registration page will be open.
Step 04: Login to the portal by using the page.
Step 05: After login verify your email by clicking verify the email. A verification link will be sent to your email. Login to your email and click on the verification link which you will receive in your email. Then, again login on the portal or refresh the e-PMS portal.
Step 06: Complete your profile.
Step 07: After completing the mandatory section of PI/Fellow Profile, click on Proposal Submission→ Submit New Proposal → Select the appropriate sub-scheme under HRD.
Step 08: Before proceeding to submission of the proposal, it is suggested to read scheme guidelines; and make ready all relevant information, documents, and research plan.
For scheme/call for proposals related queries:
Contact: Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, New Delhi
Telephone No. : 011-23736216
For website/online submission-related queries:
Contact: Technical Team, ICMR Headquarters, New Delhi
Telephone No. : 011-26589571, Email: epms.dhr@icmr.gov.in
Documents Required
1. Identity proof 
2. Passport-size Photograph
3. Academic Qualifications certificates
4. Caste certificate, if applicable
5. Disability certificate, if applicable
6. Technical Details for short-term fellowship
7. Undertaking by Applicant
8. Certificate by Head of Institute
9. Mentor Consent Letter
10. DSIR Recognition certificate
11. Mandate Form from your working Institute
12. Age Proof Certificate
13. Declaration & Attestation
14. Claim sheet (for International fellowship)
15. Format of Utilization certificate and Statement of expenditure
16. Completion report
17. Any other document, as required
Note: The format of documents from Sl. No. 6 to 16 may be downloaded from the Official Website of the Department of Health Research.
