Grant of Financial Assistance to the Poor Parents Having Only One Girl Child Who is Studying 8th to 10th Standard
Puducherry
FamilyFinancial AssistanceGirl ChildParentStudent
Details
The scheme "Grant of Financial Assistance to the Poor Parents Having Only One Girl Child Who is Studying 8th to 10th Standard" is a welfare scheme by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme was introduced to promote small family norms, uplift the welfare of girl children, and ease the financial burden on parents during their daughter's marriage. The scheme provides ₹25,000/- financial assistance for single girl children studying in 8th to 10th standard. 

Benefits
₹ 25,000/- will be deposited in a fixed deposit in the Post Office in the form of a National Savings Certificate in the name of the Girl Child.
The maturity amount will be released when the girl child attains the age of eighteen years.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than five years.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/-.
The applicant should have only one living girl child and no other issue.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card.
2. Residence Certificate From the Revenue Department.
3. Income Certificate From the Revenue Department.
4. Voter ID Card.
5. Passport-sized Photograph.
6. Declaration/Undertaking (if any).
7. Certificate from MP/MLA/Commissioner of Municipality/Commune Panchayat/Revenue Officer not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar.
8. Certificate of Birth of the Girl Child.
9. Forwarding Certificate From the Head of the Educational Institution.
10. Family Ration Card Duly Attested by a Gazetted Officer.
11. Election Identity Card of the Parents Duly Attested by a Gazetted Officer.
12. Study Certificate From the School.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
