Merit·cum·Means Scholarships For Under Graduate Studies In Various Branches Of Agriculture And Animal Science Subjects
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgricultureScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme of "Merit·cum·Means Scholarships For Under Graduate Studies In Various Branches Of Agriculture And Animal Science Subjects" is a scholarship scheme introduced by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), with a view to attracting meritorious under-graduate students to prosecute their study in Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Home Science, Dairy & Animal Husbandry subjects up to graduation level. The scholarships are awarded annually on the basis of merit-cum-means. 

Only those students, who satisfy the said 'Means Test' condition and who have secured not less than 60% marks or grade points equivalent thereof in the aggregate in the qualifying examination as defined below will be considered eligible for consideration. The value of the scholarships for undergraduate studies in Agriculture (including Agricultural Engineering & Home Science) and Animal Science subjects will be ₹ 1,000/- per month per student. The scholarship will be tenable for the full duration of the degree course in the concerned subject.

Benefits
The value of the scholarships for undergraduate studies in Agriculture (including Agricultural Engineering & Home Science) and Animal Science subjects will be ₹ 1,000/- per month per student. The scholarship will be tenable for the full duration of the degree course in the concerned subject.
Eligibility
Only those students, who satisfy the said 'Means Test' condition and who have secured not less than 60% marks or grade points equivalent thereof in the aggregate in the qualifying examination (as defined in the scheme guidelines) will be considered eligible for consideration. 
The inter-se merit of candidates having secured equal marks in the qualifying examination will be determined on the basis of marks obtained by such candidates in the science subjects in that examination.
The Scholarship will ordinarily be admissible to the person of Indian Nationality as defined in the constitution of India or persons domiciled in India, irrespective of sex, race, or religion.

MEANS TEST
Only those whose parents have an income not exceeding ₹ 1,00,000 per annum shall be eligible for scholarships. 
There would be no system of half scholarship. 
A national prize of ₹ 500/- and a certificate of merit would be awarded in lieu of a scholarship, to eligible students whose parents' income exceeds ₹ 1,00,000 per annum.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: After the start of the courses, ICAR will call for particulars of eligible students admitted to the first year class of the different degree courses and the number of actual admissions thereto. 

Step 02: The number of scholarships available in each course at each college and the name of the candidates to be selected for the award will be communicated by the Council to the colleges concerned. The payment of the scholarship will start from the month the admission is obtained.

Step 03: Funds will normally be paid to the Head of the Institution concerned for each academic year in advance receipt of a progress report/certificate to the effect that the scholar had joined the course medicating the actual date of joining the Institution and a formal demand for funds. 

Step 04: The payment of scholarships to the scholars will, however, be made by the Head of the Institution in regular monthly installments after taking into consideration the conduct and regularity in attendance of the scholar concerned.

Proforma For Submission Of Demand: https://education.icar.gov.in/pdf/format-MCM-2017.pdf
Documents Required
Proof of Identity.
Marksheets of Previous Educational Qualification.
Aadhar Number
 Income Certificate issued by the designated State/UT Authority. 
Details of the Bank Account in the name of the student or Joint Account with Mother/Father.
Proof of admission into an ICAR recognized Agricultural University.
