Mukhyamantri Yuva Swarojgar Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Business & EntrepreneurshipFinancial AssistanceSelf Employement
Details
Chief Minister Youth Self-Employment Scheme CG MMYSY Yojana 2023 This scheme has been started by the state government to make the youth of Chhattisgarh self-employed and make them economically independent and self-reliant. To provide overall assistance like financial assistance, guarantee, training, and follow-up to the youth of the state in setting up industry service and business as self-employment, so that according to their ability and working capacity, they can easily help and get success in setting up their own enterprises. So that he can contribute to the economic progress while feeling his own responsibility

Benefits
Loans from Banks / Financial Institutions
Under this scheme, loans will be provided to eligible youth for construction, service and business through banks / financial institutions, the limit of which will be as follows:-
Manufacturing Enterprises - Project cost up to Rs.25.00 Lakhs.
Service Industry - Project cost up to Rs.10.00 Lakhs.
Business - Project cost max Rs.2.00 lakh.

Guarantee Fee / Annual Fee Assistance
Beneficiary category Guarantee Fee / Annual Service Fee for Credit Guarantee Trust of Government of India
General class Guarantee fee on the loan amount sanctioned by banks / financial institutions and the annual service fee imposed for the next 04 years. 
SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/Disabled/ Ex-Servicemen / Naxal Affected Guarantee fee levied on the loan amount sanctioned by the bank/financial institutions and the next 4 imputed annual services for years

Interest Subsidy
General class 5% subsidy from the date of first loan disbursement (period of five years As far as) Maximum limit Rs.50000 per annum on Term Loan On Working Capital Loan Rs. 25000 per annum.
SC/ST/OBC/Minority/Women/Disabled/Ex-Servicemen / Naxal Affected 8% subsidy from the date of first loan disbursement (period of five years As far as) Maximum limit on Term Loan Rs. 75000 p.a. Working capital loan Rs.40000 p.a.

Margin Money Grant
Beneficiary category Margin money grant
General class 10% of the project cost sanctioned by banks/financial institutions subject to a maximum up to Rs. 100,000/-
OBC/Minority/Women/Disabled/Ex-Servicemen/Naxal Affected 15% of the project cost sanctioned by banks/financial institutions subject to a maximum up to Rs. up to 1,50,000/-
SC/ST 25% of the project cost sanctioned by banks/financial institutions subject to a maximum of Rs. up to 1,50,000/-
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh state.
Applicant must have passed minimum 8th class.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 35 years as of the date of application. (5 years relaxation in maximum age limit for SC/ST/OBC/Women/PWD entrepreneurs/Naxalite affected family members/Retired soldiers)
The applicant should not be a defaulter of any nationalized bank / financial institution / cooperative bank.
Only one person from a family will be able to apply.
The annual income of the applicant's family is Rs. 3,00,000/- (In the definition of family, the applicant's husband/wife and children will be included (In case the applicant is unmarried, the income of the applicant's parents, unmarried siblings will also be included)
Applicants who have taken benefit of grant under PMRYO, PMROSRIKA or any other scheme of the Government of India / State Government will not be eligible.
Application Process
Offline
Applicants can get the application form from the department office and it's free of cost.
The application in the prescribed format will be submitted by the applicant to the District Trade and Industry Center along with necessary supporting documents.
 All applications received will be registered. The applicant will be given 15 days' time by the District Trade and Industry Center to complete the incomplete application. If the application is not completed within the stipulated time, the application will be returned.
 The project profile (brief project report) of the proposed activity will also be attached to the application.
 The applications received in the District Trade and Industry Center will be presented before the Taskforce Committee. The task force committee will give approval after the interview on the basis of the applicant's qualifications, experience, technical ability, feasibility of the skill project, etc. The approved cases will be forwarded to the respective banks for loan approval.
 Cases will be resolved by the banks/financial institutions within a time period of 30 days and the applicant will be informed about the same.
 The enterprises established under the scheme can be inspected by the officials of the District Trade and Industry Center.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent Residental Certificate.
Caste certificate.
Educational qualification document.
Bank account.
Passport-size photo.
Mobile no.
