Post Matric Scholarship Students With Disabilities
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
DegreeDiplomaGraduationPersons With DisabilityPost-GraduationPost-MatricScholarshipStudent
Details
A scholarship scheme by DoEPwD for students with disabilities pursuing a post-matric qualification from UGC/AICTE recognized universities, i.e. students of Class 11th, Class 12th, including Polytechnics, Post-Matriculation Diploma/Certificates and Bachelor’s Degree/Diploma in India and Master’s Degree/Diploma.

The students with the specified disabilities defined in Schedule of the "Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016" will be eligible under this scheme. This includes persons with visual, hearing, speech, loco-motor, mental retardation, and other disabilities. NOS is implemented offline by the DEPwD.

At times SwDs are deprived of harnessing their latent skills and thereby miss the opportunity. This scheme aims to support SwDs to study further in order to prepare themselves to earn their livelihood and to find a dignified place for themselves in the society as they face several barriers physical, financial, psychological, mental in pursuing studies and living with dignity.

Benefits
Maintenance Allowance (₹ per Month):

Group 1: All Bachelor’s/Post-Graduate Degree Courses in Medicine, Engineering/Technology, Planning/Architecture, Fashion Technology, Management, Business/Finance Administration, Computer Science/Applications, Agriculture, Veterinary and Allied Sciences; Hostellers – 1600; Day Scholars – 750
Group 2: Professional Courses leading to Degree / Diploma, Certificate in areas like Pharmacy (B.Pharma), LLB, BFS, other para-medical branches like Rehabilitation, Diagnostics etc., Mass Communication, Hotel Management & Catering, Travel/Tourism/Hospitality, Interior Decoration, Nutrition & Dietetics, Commercial Art, Financial Services (e.g. Banking Insurance, Taxation etc.); Hostellers – 1100; Day Scholars – 700
Group 3: All other courses leading to a Graduate Degree not covered under Group 1 and 2, e.g. BA/B.Sc/B.Com etc. Hostellers – 950; Day Scholars – 650
Group 4: All Post-Matriculation Level Non-Degree courses for which entrance qualification is High School (Class 10th), e.g. Senior Secondary Certificate (Class 11th and 12th), both general and vocational stream, ITI courses, 3-year diploma courses in Polytechnics etc. Hostellers – 900; Day Scholars – 550

Disability Allowances (₹/Annum):
Visually Impaired – 4000.
Hearing Impaired – 2000.
Physically Disabled (OH) – 2000.
Intellectual Disabilities – 4000.
All other types of disability not covered above – 2000. 

Book Allowance: ₹1500/- per annum.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a student.
The applicant must be pursuing a post-matric qualification, i.e. Class 11th, Class 12th, including Polytechnics, Post-Matriculation Diploma/Certificates and Bachelor’s Degree/Diploma in India and Master’s Degree/Diploma.
The applicant must be disabled, with disability percentage of 40% or above.
The Total Annual income of parents/guardians of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 2.50 Lakh per Annum.
The applicant must not be availing any other scholarship by the govt.
The applicant must not be the third sibling of the family who has been given this scholarship.
Application Process
Online
Step 1:   Keep ready the soft copies of the required documents.
Go to http://www.scholarships.gov.in/. and click “New Registration”.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory)
Fill the details and click “Register”. 
Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later.
Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application.
Documents Required
Photograph.
Proof of Age.
Certificate of Disability (Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016).
Income Certificate.
Tuition Fee Receipt.
Last academic qualification certificate.
Bank Details of the applicant or of the Parent/Guardian.
