Scheme for Promoting Young Talents in Science-II
Kerala
Financial AssistancePolytechnicScience ProjectStudentTechnical AssistanceUndergraduateYoung Talent
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Promoting Young Talents in Science-II (SPYTiS-II)” is constituted for the purpose of providing financial and technical assistance to talented young students who have innovative ideas in scientific/technological pursuits. Under the scheme, students from polytechnic colleges and those admitted to undergraduate-level courses in colleges will be selected every year to do a science project. The selected students will be provided financial support for successfully completing the project.
      The grant will be released to the Head of the institution in which the students are enrolled after successful completion of the work, subject to submission of signed terms and conditions, final project report, Statement of Expenditure (SE,) and Utilization Certificate (UC). The grant shall be utilized only for the purpose for which it has been sanctioned. The awardees shall be requested to participate in a Science Talent Fair, Children Science Congress, or Kerala Science Congress organized by the  Kerala State Council for Science, Technology & Environment (KSCSTE)to present their projects/findings.

Benefits
Students who have innovative ideas in science & technology are enrolled in polytechnic colleges and undergraduate courses in colleges will be provided financial assistance up to ₹10,000/- for conducting projects.
Financial assistance will be provided to the host institution and the students have to work under the guidance/supervision of a teacher.
Awardees are encouraged to participate in the Science Talent Fair, National Children’s Science Congress, or Kerala Science Congress organized by KSCSTE to present their projects/findings.
The duration of the project is one year.
Under the scheme, no major equipment for research will be granted. Minor equipment, if found necessary, will be granted only to an institution in the State. In such a case, the budget for minor equipment shall be limited to 30% of the maximum eligible amount. Further, all permanent assets evolved from the project shall be the assets of the institution.
Eligibility
The students (maximum of 5 students per group) who are enrolled in polytechnic colleges and undergraduate level courses in colleges/universities (BSc level) of Kerala State can apply under the scheme.
Note: The maximum number of proposals to be forwarded from an institution shall be limited as follows:
• 10 from a college
• 4 from a college/university department
• 2 from a Principal Investigator from college
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Proposals in the prescribed format are generally invited in the month of June every year through advertisement on the KSCSTE website and dailies.
Step 02: Completed applications duly signed and forwarded by the Head of the Institution should reach the Director, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom PO, Thiruvananthapuram – 695004 on or before the deadline.
Note 01: All institutions are encouraged to apply as early as possible.
Note 02: Incomplete applications will be summarily rejected.
Note 03: The decision of KSCSTE in the selection of projects shall be final.
Note 04: A total of three copies of applications should be sent to KSCSTE along with the supporting documents.
Note 05: The Head of the Institution shall ensure that the number of proposals being forwarded from the institution is as per the criteria given above, failing which none of the proposals from the institution will be considered.
Note 06: The financial assistance will be disbursed to the Head of the Institution, only after the successful conduct of the project, subject to the submission of signed terms and conditions, final report, and financial statements. The audited Statement of Expenditure (SE) and Utilization Certificate (UC) in the standard format may be submitted within three months after the completion of the project.
Contact Details:
The Head, Science Education Division (SED), Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment,
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 4, Tel No. + 91-471-2548218/223
E-mail: sed.kscste@kerala.gov.in, Website: www.kscste.kerala.gov.in
Documents Required
1. Details of students
2. Details of project proposal
3. Achievements of the students in science-related activities
4. Estimate showing the expenditure involved in the project
5. Official bank account details of the Head of the institution
6. Endorsement letter
7. Declaration by the Head of the Institution
8. Any other document, as required
