SWADHAR Greh (A Scheme For Women In Difficult Circumstances)
Ministry of Women and Child Development
AbuseCounsellingShelterSupportVictimViolenceWomen
Details
The Ministry of Women and Child Development is implementing the Swadhar Greh Scheme which targets the women victims of difficult circumstances who are in need of institutional support for rehabilitation so that they could lead their life with dignity. The Scheme envisages providing shelter, food, clothing and health as well as economic and social security for these women.

Beneficiaries 
The benefit of the component could be availed by women above 18 years of age in the following categories:
Women who are deserted and are without any social and economic support;
Women survivors of natural disasters who have been rendered homeless and are without any social and economic support;
Women prisoners released from jail and are without family, social and economic support;
Women victims of domestic violence, family tension or discord, who are made to leave their homes without any means of subsistence and have no special protection from exploitation and/ or facing litigation on account of marital disputes; and
Trafficked women/girls rescued or run away from brothels or other places where they face exploitation and Women affected by HIV/AIDS who do not have any social or economic support. However such women/ girls should first seek assistance under UJJAWALA Scheme in areas where it is in operation.
Women affected by domestic violence could stay up to one year. For other categories of women, the maximum period of stay could be up to 3 years. The older women above the 55 years of age may be accommodated for a maximum period of 5 years after which they will have to shift to old age homes or similar institutions.

Swadhar Greh facilities could also be availed by the children accompanying women in the above categories. Girls up to the age of 18 years and boys up to the age of 8 years would be allowed to stay in the Swadhar Greh with their mothers. (Boys of more than 8 years of age need to be shifted to the Children Homes run under JJ Act/ICPS.)

Objectives
Under the Scheme, Swadhar Greh will be set up in every district with a capacity of 30 women with the following objectives:
To cater to the primary need of shelter, food, clothing, medical treatment, and care of the women in distress and who are without any social and economic support.
To enable them to regain their emotional strength that gets hampered due to their encounter with unfortunate circumstances.
To provide them with legal aid and guidance to enable them to take steps for their readjustment in family/society.
To rehabilitate them economically and emotionally.
To act as a support system that understands and meets various requirements of women in distress.
To enable them to start their life afresh with dignity and conviction.

Strategies
The objectives cited above would be pursued by adopting the following strategies:
Temporary residential accommodation with the provision of food, clothing, medical facilities, etc.
Vocational and skill up-gradation training for economic rehabilitation of such women
Counseling, awareness generation and behavioral training
Legal aid and Guidance
Counseling through telephone

Benefits
Women affected by domestic violence could stay up to one year. 
For other categories of women, the maximum period of stay could be up to 3 years. 
The older women above the 55 years of age may be accommodated for a maximum period of 5 years after which they will have to shift to old age homes or similar institutions.
Swadhar Greh facilities could also be availed by the children accompanying women in the above categories. 
Girls up to the age of 18 years and boys up to the age of 8 years would be
allowed to stay in the Swadhar Greh with their mothers. (Boys of more than 8 years of age
need to be shifted to the Children Homes run under JJ Act/ICPS.)

Types of Services other than Shelter:  
Legal Service
Vocational Training
Medical Facilities
Counseling
Eligibility
The benefit of the component could be availed by women above 18 years of age in the following categories:
Women who are deserted and are without any social and economic support;
Women survivors of natural disasters who have been rendered homeless and are without any social and economic support;
Women prisoners released from jail and are without family, social and economic support;
Women victims of domestic violence, family tension or discord, who are made to leave their homes without any means of subsistence and have no special protection from exploitation and/ or facing litigation on account of marital disputes; and
Trafficked women/girls rescued or run away from brothels or other places where they face exploitation and Women affected by HIV/AIDS who do not have any social or economic support. However such women/ girls should first seek assistance under UJJAWALA Scheme in areas where it is in operation.
Women affected by domestic violence could stay up to one year. For other categories of women, the maximum period of stay could be up to 3 years. The older women above the 55 years of age may be accommodated for a maximum period of 5 years after which they will have to shift to old age homes or similar institutions.

Swadhar Greh facilities could also be availed by the children accompanying women in the above categories. Girls up to the age of 18 years and boys up to the age of 8 years would be allowed to stay in the Swadhar Greh with their mothers. (Boys of more than 8 years of age need to be shifted to the Children Homes run under JJ Act/ICPS.)
Application Process
Offline
A woman affected by violence can access OSC in the following manner:

By herself; 
Through any person including any public-spirited citizen, public servant (as defined under section 21 of Indian Penal Code, 1860), relative, friend, NGO, volunteer etc. , 
Through Women Helpline integrated with police, ambulance, and other emergency response helplines.

The applicant can visit the directory website and contact helpline according to their location
Documents Required
The documents required shall be notified to you by the helpcentre.
