State Reward to the Recipient of National Award
Goa
ArtistAwardCultureDanceLiteratureMusic
Details
The scheme "State Reward to the Recipient of National Award" has been designed by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa as a token of appreciation in order to support and promote the local artists, who have received recognition at the National and International levels.

Objectives
To give State recognition to the local artists receiving the National Award.
To appreciate local talents and promote local artists.
To give financial support to local artists.

Benefits
A memento, a certificate of appreciation and a financial purse to the extent of ₹ 1,00,000/- per individual.
Eligibility
a)       The applicant should be a Goan artist who has received any of the following National Awards:
Sahitya Akademi Award. 
Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. 
Lalit Kala Akademi Award. 
Padma Award for the contribution to the field of art & culture (for literature, music, dance, theatre, fine art, folk art etc.) 
Bhartiya Dnyanpeeth Award. 
Saraswati Sanman. 
Sahitya Akademi Jivan Gaurav Puraskar (Lifetime Achievement Award). 
Sangeet Natak Academy Fellowship. 
Any other National or International Award specially recognized by the Government of Goa for the purpose of this scheme from time to time. 
b)       Those living artists who have already received such awards stated above shall also be eligible for this scheme.

NOTE: Under this scheme, an artist shall be eligible to receive the benefit only once, although he gets more than one award from amongst above mentioned awards.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of 
the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director or to the ACO-III, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404606, Email: aco6-dac.goa@nic.in
Documents Required
a)    Residential Certificate proving that the applicant has spent at least 10 years in Goa
b)    Proof of having received any of the following National Awards:
Sahitya Akademi Award. 
Sangeet Natak Akademi Award. 
Lalit Kala Akademi Award. 
Padma Award for the contribution to the field of art & culture (for literature, music, dance, theatre, fine art, folk art etc.) 
Bhartiya Dhyanpeeth Award. 
Saraswati Sanman. 
Sahitya Akademi Jivan Gaurav Puraskar (Lifetime Achievement Award). 
Sangeet Natak Academy Fellowship. 
Any other National or International Award specially recognized by the Government of Goa for the purpose of this scheme from time to time.
