National Overseas Scholarship For Scheduled Caste Etc. Candidates
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
DegreeInternational EducationPhDPost-GraduationScheduled CasteScholarshipStudentTuition Fees
Details
A scholarship scheme by Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment for regular, full-time students from Scheduled Castes, Denotified Nomadic and Semi Nomadic Tribes, Landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional Artisans; to obtain higher education viz., Master degree or Ph.D courses by studying abroad in Institutions/Universities accredited by the Government/authorized body of that country in any field of study.

Benefits
Annual Maintenance Allowance: For the United States of America (USA) & other countries except for the UK: 15400 US Dollars. For United Kingdom (UK): 9900 Great Britain Pounds
Contingency Allowance: For the United States of America (USA) & other countries except for the UK: 1500 US Dollars. For United Kingdom (UK): 1100 Great Britain Pounds
Tuition Fees: Actual as charged
Visa Fees: Actual Visa Fees in INR
Medical Insurance Premium: Actual as charged
Incidental Journey Allowance & Equipment Allowance: 20 US Dollars for each or its equivalent in INR.
Air Passage: Purchase air tickets (from the nearest Airport to Hometown in India to the nearest place to the educational institution and back to India) from the three authorized travel agents viz. Balmer Lawrie & Company Limited (BLCL), Ashok Travels & Tours (ATT), Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd (IRCTC). The ticket purchased must be of economy class/shortest route on the date of booking. The choice of the travel agent for booking the ticket is left open to the awardees. No Booking charges/excess baggage/cancellation charges & other add-ons will be reimbursed to awardees.

The awardees will claim reimbursement of airfare from their respective Indian Mission abroad after joining the University and providing a joining report from the University.

The conditions will be effective from 1st Jan 2022.

Return tickets will be booked by Indian Mission abroad as per Clause 11(iii) of the scheme guidelines.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a student belonging to a Scheduled Caste, Denotified Nomadic, Semi Nomadic Tribe, Landless Agricultural Labourer, or a Traditional Artisan.
The applicant must have been admitted to or received an unconditional offer of admission for pursuing a master's / Ph.D. from an institute/university located abroad.
The institute/university of the applicant must be accredited by the Government/authorized body of that country.
The applicant must have secured at least 60% marks or equivalent grade in the qualifying examination (In the case of Ph.D. courses, the qualifying exam is a Master’s Degree; In the case of a Master’s Degree, the qualifying exam is a Bachelor's Degree)
The total income of the family of the applicant (from all sources) is less than or equal to ₹ 8 lakh per annum.
Two or more of the applicant's siblings must not be already availing of this scholarship.
In case a student has completed a Bachelor of Engineering after completing a Diploma (Lateral Entry to 2nd year), the percentage of marks obtained in Bachelor's degree will be taken into account.
30% of the awards for each year shall be earmarked for women candidates. However, in case, adequate women candidates are not available as per the stipulations of the scheme, then the unutilized slots will be utilized by selecting suitable male candidates.
There are 115 slots for Scheduled Castes, 6 slots for Denotified, Nomadic, and Semi-Nomadic Tribes, and 4 slots for Landless Agricultural Labourers and Traditional Artisans.
Application Process
Online
Step 1:
The candidates can apply online on the portal: www.nosmsje.gov.in

Step 2:
The new applicants need to register under the “Student Register Form” under the login tab: https://nosmsje.gov.in/Register.aspx. The following details are required to be filled in the Student Register Form: Category, First Name, Middle Name, Last Name, Full Name, Mobile Number, Email ID, Date of Birth, State of 10th Board,10th Board Certificate Number, Year of passing.

Step 3:
After successful login details, a text message will be sent to the registered email address. The email address and password entered by the applicant will be the User ID and password respectively for filling out the application form. The password should be at least 8 digits with a combination of numeric, alphabet, and one special character. At least one character should be in capital letters.
 The following details are required to be filled in the Application Form:
1. Personal Information:
Full Name, Fathers/Guardian Name, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number, Email ID, Domicile State, Domicile District, Marital Status, Aadhaar Number.
2. Current Address:
House Number / Plot Number, Street Name / Road Name / Location Name, State, District, Pin Code.
3. Next of kin residing in India (to be notified in case of Emergency):
A valid and functional Phone Number / Mobile Number and Email ID of the family member/friend/relative.
4. Details of the Foreign University/Institute (where the applicant has taken admission or has applied for admission):
Degree Course Applied for (Masters or Ph.D., Field of Study, Course Name (in case applied for Masters Programme, for Masters Programme, full nomenclature of the course name), Title / Topic of the Research (in case applied for a Ph.D. Programme), Description of the Course (max. 1000 characters), Application / Registration / Admission date, Anticipated Joining Date (if any), Anticipated Course End Date (if any), Name of the University / Institute, Country of the University / Institute, Do you have unconditional offer letter? (Yes / No), QS World Ranking of the University / Institute.
(In case, the candidate has unconditional offer letters for more than one University/Institute he/she should choose only one most preferred University/Institute and provide its details.)
5. Qualifying Degree / Examination Details:
Course Name, Name of the College/University/Institution, State, District, Address of the College/University/Institution, Subject/Course taken, Year of Passing, Scoring System (Whether CGPA / OGPA or % marks. In case of CGPA / OGPA, the grade marks as mentioned in the certificate), Percentage / Equivalent Percentage of Marks, Details of published Research Papers (if any).
6. Employment / Gap Details
Provide the current and/or past employment details, if any, from the qualifying examination. In case of no employment by the candidate, an affidavit of the same may be attached to the concerned column.
(a) Current employment details (if the applicant is currently employed)
Nature of Employment (Self Employed / Salaried / Contract Work / Casual Work etc), Name of Office / Organization, State, District, Address of Office / Organization, Date of Joining, Designation, Last Emoluments (In case of salaried persons, salary received including all allowances from the present employment during last month may be provided. In case of employment other than salaried, the total monthly income of the last month may be entered).
(b) & (c) Have you ever been employed earlier/any other experience
There may be situations that which the applicant has worked on earlier occasions.
7. Award of Scholarship under the National Overseas Scholarship (NOS) Scheme on a previous occasion
The details of the scholarship awarded to the candidate or any of his/her siblings under NOS on earlier occasions. The relationship with the applicant/year of award/course for which scholarship was awarded.
8. Visa Application details
Provide details of the Visa obtained or applied for. In case the candidate has applied to any University in the USA, he/she is required to obtain J-1 VISA only.
9. Prospects in India
Provide the future prospects in India after completion of his/her proposed study abroad.
Documents Required
During the Application Stage:
1. 10th Board Certificate
2. Caste Certificate (Refer Source for Format)
3. Photo
4. Scanned Signature
5. Current Address proof/Permanent Address Proof (if from current address)
6. Qualifying Degree/Provisional Certificate
7. Mark sheet of qualifying examination
8. Valid Document regarding admission in Foreign University 
             (Application, Registration or Admission related document) (*)
9.          Family Income Certificate (issued by the Revenue Authorities of the State Govt.) (Refer Source for Format) 
10. Employer's NOC Certificate (if the applicant is employed)
11. Gap certificate (if there is gap of more than 6 months after completing qualifying Degree)
12. ITR acceptance document.
13.       Aadhaar Number

In case of selection of the applicant, in order to receive the “Provisional Award Letter” under the scheme, the following documents need to be submitted:
1. Attestation form
2. Self-Declaration / Undertaking regarding Total Annual Family Income (from all sources).
3. Self-Declaration regarding any Pending Case / Non-Conviction of Offense.
4. Copy of Passport

Source:
Format for Income Certificate:
https://nosmsje.gov.in/docs/income_Certificate.pdf 
Format for Certificate of being Landless Agricultural Labourer
https://nosmsje.gov.in/docs/Certificate_for%20being_Landless_Agricultural_Labourer.pdf 
Format for Certificate of being Traditional Artisan
https://nosmsje.gov.in/docs/Certificate_for%20being_Traditional_Artisan.pdf 
