Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme
Ministry Of Rural Development
Below Poverty Line - BPLDifferently AbledPension
Details
Indira Gandhi National Disability Scheme was launched on February 2009 by the Ministry of Rural Development headed by the Central Government to support the disabled people in our country. This scheme introduced under National Social Assistance Program provides monthly pension to disabled people for the prosperity of their lives. Any disabled person whose age is more than 18 years, and with disability 80% or more belonging to the poverty line can apply for this scheme. 

Benefits
A pension of Rs.300/- per month is provided to Divyangjan between 18 years and 79 years. For persons who are 80 years and above the pension of Rs.500/- per month will be provided.
Eligibility
The eligibility criteria for a disabled person to avail the benefits are as follows.

The age of the applicant should range between 18-79 years.
The applicant should be a resident of India.
The applicant should be a physically or mentally disabled person.
The applicant’s disability should be more than 80%.
Dwarfs are also eligible for this scheme.
The applicant should belong to Below Poverty Line.
Application Process
Online
Offline
One can download UMANG App or visit website https://web.umang.gov.in/web_new/home 
The citizen can login using mobile number and OTP.
Once logged In, citizen can search for NSAP.
Click on “Apply Online”
Fill the basic details, choose the mode of payment of pension, upload photo and click on “Submit”.

Apply Now
Documents Required
BPL Card
Aadhaar card
Age Proof - For age, the birth certificate or school certificate may be relied on. In their absence ration card and EPIC may be considered. If there is no valid document, any Medical Officer of any government hospital may be authorized to issue the age certificate.
Disability certificate:- Disability certificate (80% and More) issued from Chief Medical Officer, Community Health Centre or Primary Health Centre will be accepted.
Passport Size Photographs.
