Grant For Organizing Conference
Ministry of Education
ConferenceGrant
Details
The scheme of "Grant for Organizing Conference (GOC)" is a grant scheme by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Department of Higher Education (DoHE). The scheme provides financial assistance to institutions for organizing conferences in various fields of technical education. Both Onsite Conferences and Online Conferences are supported. The objective is to promote high standards in technical education by way of extending opportunities to academicians and working professionals by providing a forum for sharing their knowledge, experiences, innovations, and inventions.

Expected Outcomes
(a) Dissemination of knowledge and sharing of new innovative ideas among participants
and delegates from across the globe which would further help them in developing new ideas relevant to their research work.
(b) Awareness of the recent developments in the field.
(c) Publication of the papers in a high-impact journal.
(d) Novel ideas for impact on the UG/ PG student projects.
(e) New research areas or improvement in ongoing research.
(f) Ideas to create a roadmap for upcoming projects and possibilities for opening new avenues for research.
(g) Collaborations between institutions and industry.
(h) Learning of best practices.

Benefits
Onsite Conference
National Level Conference: One-third of the total expenditure incurred on organizing the Conference is subject to a maximum of ₹ 3,00,000.
International Level Conference: One-third of the total expenditure incurred on organizing the Conference is subject to a maximum of ₹ 4,00,000.

Online Conference 
(including e-Conference, Virtual Conference, web-conference, and Digital Conference)
National/ International Level Conference: One-third of the total expenditure incurred on organizing the online Conference is subject to a maximum of ₹ 50,000.

The disbursement of the Funds is on a reimbursement basis after the successful completion of the conference and submission of requisite documents by the institute.
Eligibility
(a) AICTE-approved institute with at least 8 years of existence.
(b) Coordinator must:
(i) be a full-time regular Associate Professor or Professor or a senior faculty with at least 10-year experience in teaching and research with publications and
(ii) have organized at least three conferences if applying for an international conference and one conference if applying for the national conference.
(c) Institute should also identify a Co-coordinator who must be a faculty with 
(i) at least 7 years of experience in teaching and research and
(ii) have organized at least one conference if applying for an international conference.
(d) The department organizing the conference should preferably be NBA accredited.
(e) Weightage will be given to conferences supported by organizations (working on the theme of the conference) like:
(i) leading professional bodies like IEEE/ ASME/ ASCE etc.
(ii) reputed organizations/ departments/ technical universities etc.
(iii) industry/ industry associations/ R&D labs etc.

Terms and Conditions - 

For the Coordinator:
(a) The approved Onsite Conference is required to be conducted within twelve months and the Online Conference within six months, from the date of receipt of the sanction letter from AICTE.
(b) At least 15% and 25% participation from other states is a must for onsite conferences and online conferences respectively.
(c) Papers from the host institution should not be more than 10% of the total papers.
(d) Coordinator will maintain an electronic record of papers, participants, their institution & their location, to ensure that norms of Pan-India participation, overseas participants in International Conferences, and papers from local faculty, are adhered to and also shared with AICTE.
(e) Coordinator should maintain a web page for the Conference on the institute’s website.
(f) The academic background of the coordinator, co-coordinator, and paper presenters must be in conformity with the theme of the proposed conference.

For the institution:
(a) Institute will be eligible to receive the grant for Conference once in two years.
(b) Any change in the program for holding the Conference, change of Coordinator name, and Venue/ date would require prior approval of the council, failing which the offer for the grant already issued would be treated as automatically withdrawn.
(c) The institution is required to post the link of funding schemes of AICTE on its website and conference webpage.

Fund utilization:
(a) 10% of the funds sanctioned by AICTE should be utilized for a registration fee of participants belonging to the SC/ST category.
(b) Funds once released/ sanctioned for organizing the particular Conference cannot be utilized for any other program/ conference.
(c) In case the conference is canceled, it must be informed to AICTE immediately.

Use of Logo of AICTE:
(a) Wherever online information regarding a conference is displayed, the AICTE logo must be prominently displayed.
(b) All publicity materials/ advertisements/ brochures/ invitation cards/ any other collaterals/ event backdrop etc. related to the conference, must carry AICTE logo.
(c) The Conference venue in terms of stage backdrop/ podium must prominently display the AICTE logo.
Application Process
Online
Application
(a) Applications are invited throughout the year.
(b) Institute must apply through its login ID at http://www.aicte-india.org and must apply at least:
(i) 6 months prior to the date of the National Conference.
(ii) 8 months prior to the date of the International Conference.

AICTE Portal Login
Step 1: Visit the AICTE website https://www.aicte-india.org 
Step 2: Click on the “Web Portal Login” button.
Step 3: Log in to the AICTE portal with the credentials provided by the AICTE.
Step 4: After successful logging, the home page of the institute appears.

AQIS Application
Step 1: After login, navigate to the AQIS application screen please click on the “AICTE Quality Improvement Schemes (Financially Funded Scheme)” icon.
Step 2: The AQIS application page of the institute is open.
Step 3: Click on the “AQIS Application- Institute details” 
Step 4: Institute and Bank Details will auto-populate in “AQIS Application – Institute Details” Please check and update according to changes.

Note:
1) Bank Account should be Saving Account.
 2) Account Holder's name should not be a personal name.
 Step 5: Check the declaration flag, then click on the “Save Bank Details” button.
Step 6: To confirm the bank details entered, kindly click on the “Confirm Bank Details” button.
Step 7: If the bank details are incorrect, click on the Cancel button to edit the bank details again otherwise click on OK to confirm the details.

Note: Once the ‘OK’ button is clicked. The Institute details and Bank details will become read-only mode.

Step 8: Click on the “All AQIS Application Information”
Step 9: Click on the “Download Mandate Form” and “Download Declaration Certificate”
Step 10: Click on the “AQIS Document Attachment”
Step 11: Click on the new record ( ) button.
Step 12: After attaching the Mandate form, click on the save ( ) button.
Note: Please attach the Verified Bank Mandate Form in scanned PDF format (Maximum Size10 MB). 

Application for ‘Grant for Organising Conference’
• Initiating New application
Step 1: After uploading the attachment of the mandate form, Click on the “All AQIS Application Information”
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button.
Step 3: Select the “GOC- Grant for Organising Conference” in AQIS Schemes dropdown. 
Step 4: Click on AQIS Application ID 
Step 5: AQIS Detail Application for GOC.

Section A: Coordinator/PI/Applicant Details
Step 1: Click on the Coordinator/PI/Applicant Details
Step 2: “Has the Institute been sanctioned any conference by AICTE in the last 2 financial years?”, Select the appropriate option. 
Step 3: Click on the selection menu icon ( ) in the Faculty ID field to add details of the conference coordinator. Select the faculty ID from the Faculty ID list and click on the OK button.
Step 4: Fill in all the fields of the Details of the Coordinator section.
Step 5: Click on the selection menu icon ( ) in the Co-coordinator Faculty ID field to add details of the conference Co-coordinator. Select the faculty ID from the Faculty ID list and click on the OK button.
Step 6: Fill in all the fields of Details of the Co-coordinator section.
Step 7: AICTE has identified conferences of repute, organized/sponsored by leading Professional Bodies/institutions organized at a set frequency. Select the appropriate field.
Step 8: Confirm the declaration 

Section B: AQIS Application Details
Step 1: Click on the AQIS Application Details
Step 2: Navigate to the AQIS Application Details, fill in all the fields 
Step 3: After filling in all the required details in the fields, click on the Save ( ) button. 

Section C: Academic Credentials of Coordinator /PI/Applicant
Step 1: Click on the Academic Credentials of Coordinator /PI/Applicant
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record and select the parameter Criteria.
Step 3: Select “YES/NO” according to the parameter, fill in the Count/Number, and fill in the Area of Specialisation. Click on the save ( ) button.

Note: Further repeat the above Steps 2 and 3 for the following Parameters/Criteria
• Any state / National/International awards received?
• Membership of the Professional / Learned bodies/ Societies
• No. of National/International conferences organized
• Number of Patents Registered
• Number of Ph. D students Guided
• Papers published in International Journals in the last 3 years
• Papers published in national Journals in the last 3 years
• Relevant experience of conducting/coordinating similar programs from AICTE and other funding agencies in the past three years
• Research Experience in years
• Teaching/Industry Experience in years
• Whether the Coordinator has Ph.D.

Step 4: After filling in all the required details in the fields, click on the Save ( ) button. 

Section D: Credentials of Co-coordinator 
Step 1: Click on the Credentials of Co-coordinator
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record and select the parameter Criteria.
Step 3: Select “YES/NO” according to the parameter, fill in the Count/Number, and fill in the Area of Specialisation/Details. Click on the save ( ) button.

Note: Further repeat the above Steps 2 and 3 for the following Parameters/Criteria
• No. of National/International conferences organized
• Number of Ph. D students Guided
• Membership of the Professional / Learned bodies/ Societies
• Papers published in International Journals in the last 3 years
• Papers published in national Journals in the last 3 years
• Whether the Coordinator has Ph.D.
• Teaching/Industry Experience in years
• Relevant experience in conducting/coordinating similar programs from AICTE and other funding agencies in the past three years
• Research Experience in years

Step 4: After filling in all the required details in the fields, click on the Save ( ) button. 

Section E: Credentials of Institution / Department
Step 1: Click on the Credentials of Institution / Department
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record and select the parameter Criteria.
Step 3: Select “YES/NO” according to the parameter, fill in the Count/Number, and fill in the Details. Click on the save ( ) button.

Note: Further repeat the above Steps 2 and 3 for the following Parameters/Criteria
• For organizing the conference institute is collaborating with Industry
• Is the institute collaborating with the technical Society for organizing a conference
• Number of conferences already conducted in the institute in the last 3 years
• Number of courses Accredited in the Institute
• Is the institute collaborating with any reputed Institute or Laboratory for organizing the conference
• Number of Years of Establishment of the Institute
• Whether the level of the course under which the conference is to be conducted PG?
• Whether the course under which the proposal is submitted, is accredited by NBA?

Step 4: After filling in all the required details in the fields, click on the Save ( ) button. 

Section F: Justification of proposal
Step 1: Click on the Justification of proposal
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record and select the parameter Criteria.
Step 3: Select the parameter/ Criteria, fill in the Details and Click on the save ( ) button.

Note: Further repeat the above Steps 2 and 3 for the following Parameters/Criteria
• Benefits to Faculty
• Benefits to Students
• Expected Outcome & Impact on Academic
• Expected Outcome & Impact on Research
• Name of Guest speakers with designation and organization
• Number of participants expected
• Objectives & Context
• Relevance

Step 4: After filling in all the required details in the fields, click on the Save ( ) button.

Section G: Foreign participants/invited speakers to the conference
Step 1: Click on the Foreign participants/invited speakers to the conference
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record 
Step 3: After filling in all the fields clicks on the ( ) Save button.

Section H: Financial commitment from other organizations/agencies
Step 1: Click on the Financial commitment from other organizations/agencies.
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record
Step 3: After filling in all the fields click on the ( )Save button.

Section I: Budget Estimates GOC
Step 1: Click on the Budget Estimates GOC
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record
Step 3: Select ‘Head of Expenditure’, and fill in the ‘Anticipated Expenditure’ and ‘Justification’ of that expenditure. 

Note: Further repeat the above Steps 2 and 3 for the following ‘Head of Expenditure’
1) For Online Conferences 
2) For Onsite Conferences 

Step 4: After filling in all the fields click on the ( ) Save button.
• Certificate/Brochure and other documents designing.
• Conference website designing & updating.
• Honorarium to Experts/ Resource Persons.
• Publication of Proceedings.
• Miscellaneous.
• Pre-conference printing (announcements, abstracts, etc.)
• Banners/Folders, Pen, and other stationery material for registration and Certificate printing and brochure printing
• Hospitality to participants /resource persons (Tea, Snacks & Lunch)
• Boarding and lodging charges for out-stationed participants/ Experts/ resource persons
• TA/DA & Honorarium to Experts/ resource persons
• Misc. expenditure including Photography, LCD projector, screen, bouquets, mementos, short visit (if any), etc.
• Publication of Proceedings (Online/printed/CD)
• Any other required expenditure

Section J: AQIS Application Attachment
Step 1: Click on the AQIS Application Attachment
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record
Step 3: Click on the ( ) button in ‘Attachment Name’ to attach the Declaration certificate of GOC.
Step 4: After attaching the Declaration Certificate, click on the save ( ) button.
Note: Please attach a verified Declaration Certificate scanned copy in PDF format (Maximum Size10 MB). 

Section K: Keywords related to the conference
Step 1: Click on the Keywords related to the conference
Step 2: Click on the new record ( ) button to add the Record
Step 3: After filling in all the fields click on the ( )Save button.

Note: Minimum 5 Keywords related to conference themes are required to submit the application.

• Validate and submit the application
Step 1: Click on the Coordinator/PI/Applicant Details
Step 2: Click on the Validate application button.
Step 3: After clicking on the Validation button the message will be populated and stated as “Validation for Scheme: 'GOC- Grant for Organizing Conference' is completed Successfully” 
Click on the OK button.
Step 4: Click on the Submit button.

Processing Methodology
(a) Online submission of application by the institution.
(b) Applications received every two months will be processed in a single lot.
(c) Screening/ scrutiny of applications at Council.
(d) Evaluation of applications by the expert committee.
(e) The final decision will be taken by the Council, keeping in view the recommendations made by the experts and the availability of funds for the scheme.
(f) After the Council’s approval, the Offer Letter for the conference will be sent to the institution.
(g) Offer Letters can be used by the institute to raise funds from other sponsors.


For more information contact us
Scheme-related Information:
e-mail address: gocidc@aicte-india.org Phone Number: (011) 29581334
Technical Information:
e-mail address: it2idc@aicte-india.org Phone Number: (011) 29581340
Documents Required
Documents to be uploaded on AICTE Portal

On receipt of Sanction Letter:
The Acceptance Letter with dates of the Conference, within 15 days from the date of receipt of the Offer Letter duly signed and seal affixed by the Coordinator and Head of the Institutions along with proforma for permission/ clearance of the Government of India for organizing International Conference.

After the conduct of the Conference:
Institute has to fill up the Report on the AICTE portal and upload the following documents:
(a) Copy of proceedings of the conference.
(b) Feedback from the participants.
(c) Geotagged photographs (maximum 15) of the conference.

Documents to be submitted after the conduct of the conference
(a) Statement of Accounts and Expenditure in prescribed format duly audited by the Chartered Accountant in the case of a private institution and by the Finance Officer/Account Officer in respect of government/government-aided institution.
(b) Supporting bills/documents on account of expenses incurred for the purpose duly attested by the Head of the Institute.
(c) Soft copy of the final report submitted on the portal as mentioned above (in section 10).

Note: AICTE may withhold fund release to the Institute in its other schemes if the
project is not closed by submitting the documents after 30 days of the conference.
