Financial Assistance To Purchase Singel Net / Small Rampon Net & Its Accessories
Goa
Financial AssistanceFishFishermenMarineSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance To Purchase Singel Net / Small Rampon Net & Its Accessories” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, a 50% subsidy is provided to the fishermen of Goa for the purchase of Singel Net/ Small Rampon Net and its accessories.

Benefits
Subsidy to the extent of 50% of the actual cost limited to ₹ 50,000/- for the purchase of Singel Net/ Small Rampon Net and its accessories, after every five years.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a traditional fisherman by birth or profession.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa.
The Fishermen should belong to the OBC (Kharvi) Community.
The grandfather/grandmother of the fishermen should be resident(s) of Goa.
The fishermen shall not possess registered fishing canoes or fishing trawlers.
Only one household family member can avail of the benefit under this scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Certificate of Vessel Registration, issued by the Directorate of Fisheries, Government of Goa, under the Merchant Shipping Act 1958.
Fishing Vessel License Certificate
Fishing Net License Certificate.
Copy of Fishing Netbook (Updated)
Original GST Bill from the Authorized Dealer towards the Construction of the Wooden / FRP Craft.
Caste Certificate (ST/ SC) if applicable.
Copy of Aadhar Card 
Copy of Election Card 
Copy of Bank Passbook/Statement (Aadhaar linked)
Bank letter (if bank financed)
Inspection Report along with photographs of Fishing Canoe, Net, and its Accessories by Fisheries Superintendent/ Fisheries Officer, Assistant Superintendent of Fisheries (As per format).
