Chief Minister Housing Assistance Programme
Meghalaya

Details
Housing is one of the basic human needs besides food, clothing and water. The improvement of the condition of the people also includes precision of decent housing. The Housing Department is intended to implement the Chief Minister’s Housing Assistance Program in two components in which housing roofing materials are given as grant in aid to the Economically Weaker Section (LWS) families to improve their existing house and tether is to provide a durable house to the how Income Group (LIG) families of the State, who are not in a position to build their own houses with their limited resources.

The scheme will be implemented in rural and urban areas of the State, allocation of funds among the districts will be on the basis of the State Budget Allocation of the year.

Benefits
This Scheme will be implemented with a cost sharing through Credit Linked Subsidy where financial assistance will be limited to a maximum of Rs. 75,000/- (Rupees Seventy five thousand) only and the balance amount either by beneficiary combustion or resources sourced from other schemes (SRWP. etc.) or in convergence with MGNREGS or   bank loan.
The cost of the house is Rs. 2.30 lakhs as per schedule of rate (SOR) of MPWD building 2015-16. and the beneficiary  will have to construct  as per the model  plan. Prior approval from the Competent Authority is necessary. In case the beneficiary wants to differ the design of the house.
The financial Assistance. beneficiaries contribution/bank loan and contribution from other schemes will be in the ratio of Rs. 75.000 /- : Rs. 23,000/- : Rs. 1, 32.000/-.
The houses to be built should be durable in nature and will suit the Geo-climatic condition prevailing in the State with a safety perspective and sanitation (Compulsory toilet).
Under this scheme Government will assist for EWS/LIG as a part of housing schemes of state.
Eligibility
1)The eligible age of beneficiary is 18 years and above.
2) The beneficiary should be a bonafide resident of the State of Meghalaya.
3) A beneficiary should produce the EPIC or any other related document as proof of residence/address proof.
4) The beneficiary should not have any other person from the same family living under the same roof as the beneficiary under this scheme.
5) The beneficiary should own land for construction of the house in the location where the house is to be constructed.
6) In case of Credit Linked Subsidy, the beneficiary should not own a house anywhere in Meghalaya either in his/her own name or in the name of his wife/her husband or any dependent members (including unmarried children) of his/her family. Declaration/Undertaking to this effect shall be furnished by the beneficiary
7) The beneficiary should not have received   Loan or Advance   from any State Government/Housing Co-operative or any other Financing Institution in connection with the construction of a house either in his/her own name or in the name of his wife/her husband in the case of Credit Linked Subsidy.
8) The Income proof of the selected beneficiary lies at the discretion of the bank in the case of Credit Linked Subsidy.
9) On completion of the construction of the house, the beneficiary should not sublet or sell the house.
10) The target for selection of beneficiaries will be  Block-wise. 
Application Process
Offline
The applications under the chief minister's Housing Assistance Program should be submitted only in the prescribed printed forms which will be supplied by Directorate of Housing through the respective Block Development Officer/District Housing Officer/Inspector of Housing, according to the requirement in each Block and District.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card
Voter Card
The Latest electoral role shall be the basis for identifications of beneficiaries.
