RMEWF-Financial Assistance For Education Of Children & Widows Of Ex-Servicemen
Ministry Of Defence
Ex-ServicemenGrantWards Of Ex-ServicemenWidow Of Ex-Servicemen
Details
A scheme to provide financial assistance to Ex-Servicemen and their widows for helping them in educating their child (for maximum two children) up to graduation and also for widows to pursue Post Graduation degree.

Aim of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to up to a maximum of two dependent children of those ESM or their widows, up to the ranks of Havildar in the Army and equivalent in the Navy and Air Force, who are not in receipt of such benefit from from the State or his Employer. It is also applicable to widows for post-graduation degree course.

Benefits
A financial assistance of Rs.1000/- per month per head (up to max two children) of eligible Ex-Servicemen and their widows is provided for the previous academic year, payable in one installment in a financial year.

Financial assistance of Rs. 1000 is also provided to widow of Ex-servicemen for pursuing 2 year post graduation course.
Eligibility
The eligibility criteria for availing financial assistance under this scheme are as follows:-
Applicant must be an ESM/ widow/Orphan dependent.
Should be of rank Havildar/equivalent and below.
The scheme is applicable for classes 1 to 12 of school and undergraduate classes of a degree college. This grant is also admissible to widows who wish to pursue 2-year post graduate degree. The ward/widow shall complete the course successfully.
The applicant should not be drawing education allowance or similar benefit from the State or is employer.
The scheme is eligible for only first two children. However, in case of twin children, below mentioned condition shall be applicable:-
In case the 1st and 2nd children are twins only twins will be eligible as maximum two children are permitted.
In case 2nd and 3rd children are twins both will be eligible for education financial assistance alongwith 1st. Thus the ESM can avail for three children subject to fulfilment of above mentioned criteria.

In case of unfortunate demise of 1st or 2nd child. In case of unfortunate demise of 1st child, 2nd and 3rd children as mentioned in discharge book will be eligible. Similarly in case of demise of 2nd child, the 3rd child will be eligible as mentioned in discharge book. The death certificate will be uploaded as supporting document with online application for scrutiny.
Application Process
Online
Eligible Ex-servicemen / their widows can visit the official website of Kendriya Sainik Board Secretariat https://ksb.gov.in/
Click on “Register” which is available on the homepage of the portal.
Now, the registration form will be displayed, fill the form with necessary details.
Upload the Photo
Save the application by clicking on the “Save” button and the saved details and password will be forwarded to the registered mail id.
Click the activation link which is sent to the mail id to login into the KSB portal.
Provide user name, password and verification code and click on the “Login “ button.
Select the scheme name and start filling the new application form by entering the required details.
Copies of the supporting documents duly attested by the respective Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must be uploaded with the online application.
Once the online application is submitted, ZSWO will scrutinize the online applications and give appointment to the applicant for verification, 
After successful verification, ZWSO will recommend the online application and forward the harp copy as well soft copy to Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) through Rajya Sainik Boards (RSBs) for further processing.

Processing at KSB Secretariat
Once the application reaches the Kendriya Sainik Board, the Section-in-charge verify the same and upload the printed list for the approval of JD (Welfare). 
Such applications of approval is then moved for sanction of the competent authority in one lot, preferably every quarter

Payment Procedure
After the submitted application has been approved, the same is processed for payment of the grant in batches of 200 applications by the Welfare department.
After verifying the service number, name, bankers, IFS Code and account number, the Welfare department forward the batch list to Accounts Section for payment, which make the payment directly via Electronic Clearing System (ECS).

Subsequent Grant
Fresh application is required to be made for all the subsequent academic years provided the child(ren) has/have satisfactorily advanced to the next class.
Subsequent application should also be submitted through ZSB in the month of May. 
ZSB will forward all the applications online to KSB Sectt by each year for consideration in the current financial year.

Track Application Status
Applicant has to revisit the same portal https://ksb.gov.in/index.htm 
Click on “Status of application” link on the homepage of the portal.
Now enter your DAK ID and verification code. Click on the “Search” button.
Documents Required
Copies of the following documents duly attested by the respective Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must accompany the application:-

Service Document/Discharge Book of ESM (Page that contains ESM/Personal Particulars, Service Particulars and Family Particulars )
ESM or Widow I-Card issued by respective ZSB.
Mark-sheet / School Progress Card of child/children.
Part –II Order mentioning names of the child(ren) for which grant is sought or there should be a proper entry to this effect in the Discharge Book/Documents.
A certificate from applicant saying that he/she has not taken any money/grant from the state or present employer in the form of education allowance or scholarship.
Details of Bank A/c No (in PNB/SBI only) and IFS Code.
Aadhaar Card copy.
