Innovation In Science Pursuit For Inspired Research (INSPIRE) - Internship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
CampInternshipScienceStudent
Details
INSPIRE INTERNSHIP aims to provide exposure to the top 1% of students at the Class X Board level by organizing Science Camps either during summer or winter which provides an opportunity for them to interact with Science icons from India and abroad, including Nobel Laureates, to experience the joys of scientific pursuit. These science camps nourish the curiosity of students in science, help them to think out-of-the-box, and attract students at an early age of 16-17 years to choose science subjects for further studies. Annually 50,000 students who are among the top one percent in their X Board Examination and pursuing science in standard XI would be benefited through summer/ winter camps. These camps would nourish the curiosity of children in science; help them to think out of the box and attract the students at an early age of 16-17 years (i.e. in XI standard) to pursue a research career.

Benefits
Duration of the Summer/Winter Camp: 5 days (excluding the days of Journey)
Nature of the Camp: Residential except in Metropolitan Cities

For the Interns:
Each day the schedule of the Program should comprise at least two lectures cum discussion of one and a half hours in the morning hours followed by hands-on experience in the second half (i.e., 1400Hrs to 1730hrs). 
The coordinator should engage students in the thinking process on issues of national importance by way of organizing sessions for interns for writing on new and innovative ideas. The following are some of the key areas of priority: Second Green Revolution; Renewable and non Renewable energy; Clean energy; Natural resources utilization for sustainability; Make in India; Swachh Bharat & Ganga Rejuvenation; Energy conservation efficiency and sustainability; Harnessing Modern Technology for the second green revolution; Dairy and Livestock Sector; Solid & Liquid Waste Management; Recycling & processing of waste to conserve resources.
The program Coordinator can organize a pre-dinner interactive session with the students on the first day and initiate discussions about the role of science and technology in the development of the nation. 
A session with the participating interns on writing new and innovative ideas on the above areas. The organizer shall evaluate these ideas by the external mentors present during the 4th or 5th day and select the best three write-ups in the raking of 1st 2nd 3rd ….. 10th. The interns whose write-ups will be selected for 1st-10th rank will be awarded during the valedictory function. 
Each visiting Nobel Laureate has to interact with the Interns.
Pre-dinner Discussions of INSPIRE interns with Mentors may be arranged each day.
Lab infrastructure in the area of Physics, Chemistry, Life Science, Earth Sciences Mathematical Sciences, etc., Auditorium with sound system, Guest House, Hostel accommodation for boys and girls.

For the Organizers/Mentors:
For the INSPIRE Internship camp of 5 days (excluding the Journey days), ₹ 6500/- student (as an uppermost ceiling/student) will be provided to the coordinating Institute/Department/agency to meet the INSPIRE Internship camp cost. 
This cost includes travel costs (as per entitlement & actual), Boarding & Lodging, Stationary including Books & small experimental gadgets, etc., Consumables, Honorarium (to the Mentors, etc.), and organizational expenses for the Students and Indian Mentors invited for the respective INSPIRE Internship camps. 
Honorarium to the mentors should be paid a maximum of ₹ 3000 per contributing day, with an upper limit of ₹ 6000 per mentor if the mentor contributes for more than one day in the entire camp duration. 
For inviting a Noble Laureate to interact with the students in these Camps as an International Mentor, INSPIRE has also a provision of providing support with a maximum of ₹ 10,00,000 (all-inclusive) per Noble Laureate. Every year a maximum 50 no. of Noble Laureates can be invited to the INSPIRE Internship Camps.
Eligibility
For the Interns
The applicant should be a School Student.
The applicant should be in the top one percent ranking in their 10th Board Examination.
The applicant should be pursuing Science in Class 11th.
The applicant should not have attended a similar camp earlier.
The applicant should be within the same State or Union Territory.

Note: In case the number of top 1% students of a respective examination board is more than the allocated number of INSPIRE interns, for participation in such camps, of the respective state/UT, top rankers will be selected for INSPIRE Internship science camp provided they had applied for the same.

For the Science Camp Organizers
University/College or Academic/Research institute should have the required infrastructure of related Science Laboratories for holding INSPIRE InternshipCamps.
Availability of auditorium with well-equipped sound system and LCD projectors.
Availability of Guest House, Hostel for Girls and Boys, with holding capacities.
University, College, or academic/Research institute shall owe the administrative and financial responsibility for the organization of INSPIRE Internship Camp.

For the Mentors
Mentors for INSPIRE Internship would be various Academy Fellows, Bhatnagar Awardees, Scientists, and academicians of National and International repute.
Application Process
Online
Submission of the Proposal
Any public or privately funded University or College Academic/ Research Institute fulfilling the above eligibility criteria and willing to organize INSPIRE internship camp can submit the online proposal on the www.online-inspire.gov.in three months in advance from the proposed date of organization of the event for consideration of support. 
The proposal shall be having Endorsement Letter duly signed by the Head of the Institute and PFMS Unique Agency code and the Organizer shall also be a regular employee of the respective University or college or Academic/Research Institute.
Documents Required
For Interns
Proof of being in the top one percent ranking in their 10th Board Examination.
Proof of Enrolment into Science Stream in 11th standard.
Bonafide Certificate from the Institution.
A declaration that the applicant has not attended a similar camp earlier.

NOTE: In case the number of top 1% students of a respective examination board is more than the allocated number of INSPIRE interns, for participation in such camps, of the respective state/UT, top rankers will be selected for INSPIRE Internship science camp provided they had applied for the same.

For the Organizer
Complete INSPIRE Internship Camp Report should be submitted to DST on External Hard Disk on the following lines:
A hard copy of the application along with uploads including the Endorsement certificate from the Head of the Institute, Program Schedule, etc. needs to be submitted along with the declaration that the organized INSPIRE internship science camp was residential in nature.
Student’s attendance (signature only) for each day (5 Days)
Each Students Registration Forms
Each Students Feedback Forms
One Page Student Feedback Summary (Complied by the Program Coordinator in the standard Format)
Course Coordinator's feedback
Videography of the five days program
List of students with cut-off marks, addresses, and signatures.
List of Mentors along with the schedule as followed by the organizers along with the title of the talks/interactions carried out each day by the mentors.
Practical session details followed in the camp
Scientific and technical write-ups of 1st, 2nd 3rd…..10th top rankers.
Audited Utilization Certificate and Statement of Expenditure (2 Copies) need to be submitted in DST format (Performa 12A) only within two months of the event completion date.
Unspent balance including interest earned on the grants for the sanctioned camps should be deposited through Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP), i.e. www.bharatkosh.gov.in, immediately after the finalization of accounts.

Brief Report (Hard as well as Soft Copy (PDF) - as an e-mail attachment to the e-mail: uk.sharma@nic.in)
Sanction order copy
List of the participating students with Cutoff marks from their Education board like State Education Board, CBSE, ICSE, etc.
Five days of attendance of the students
List of Mentors with their contact details and the title of the talk
Program Schedule followed in the camp
Student feedback summary in the given format (compiled by the Program Coordinator in the available format on INSPIRE website)
Program Coordinators Feedback
Innovative idea write-ups of the Top Ten winners
Audited Utilisation certificate in GFR 2017, 12A performa
Statement of Expenditure
Residential Camp certificate

Report to be retained by the Program Coordinator
A soft and Hard copy of the Report submitted to the DST should be retained by Organizing Institute for their record.
Also, Registration and Feedback forms duly filled in by the participating students including a photograph of the student, Aadhaar Card no., cut-off marks, courses pursued in the XI standard and a declaration that he/she has not attended a similar camp earlier need to be retained by Camp Organizer.
