Financial Assistance For Promotion Of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant)
Ministry Of Culture
CultureFinancial AssistanceGrantGuruParamparaShishyaTheatre
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant)” was launched by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. Under this scheme, financial assistance will be provided to dramatic groups, theatre groups, music ensembles, children's theatre, and all genres of performing arts activities.
       The Ministry of Culture will evaluate the grantees through periodical inspections, field visits, etc. as may be felt necessary for the scheme on a periodical basis. As regards the fresh cases of this scheme, the approved grant in each case shall be released only after physical verification of the Organisations as decided by the Ministry. Further, a minimum of 5-10% of new recommended proposals/cases would be physically inspected/verified by the Officers concerned in the Ministry of Culture.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹15,000/- per month will be given to each Guru/Director.
Financial assistance to each Shisya/Artist will be given as under:
Sl. No. Categories of Shisya/Artist Age Group Amount of Assistance/ Honorarium Per Month
1 Adult Shisya/Artist (18 years age & above) ₹10,000/- (Rupees Ten thousand only)
2 A category child Shisya/Artist (12 years age & above but less than18 years age) ₹7,500/- (Rupees seven thousand five hundred only)
3 B category child Shisya/Artist (6 years age & above but less than 12 years age) ₹3,500/- (Rupees three thousand and five hundred only)
4 C category child Shisya/Artist (3 years age & above but less than 6 years age) ₹2,000/- (Rupees two thousand only)
Note 01: The expenditure under this Scheme should be limited to the allocated outlay under the Scheme.
Note 02: Payment to the applicant Organisations shall be invariably made through Electronic mode/RTGS, as per practice in vogue.
Eligibility
The arts activities performing organizations having dramatic groups, theatre groups, music ensembles, and children's theatre are eligible to apply under the scheme.
The group ensembles to be assisted with the scheme will be expected to have a repertoire of adequate number and quality and should have given performances on an all-India basis.
Organizations will be eligible to obtain only one grant in a financial year.
Note 01: The Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant) will be reviewed annually by the Expert Committee set up for the purpose.
Note 02: Physical verification would be compulsory for the continuation of Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant) after every 4th (fourth) year.
Note 03: Those grantees that are getting financial assistance under the scheme, would be recommended for renewal of the scheme only when they stage at least two productions during the financial year. Out of these two, at least one production must be a new production i.e. which has not been staged earlier.
Note 04: Financial assistance under the scheme will be disbursed in one installment on fulfillment of the following conditions at the time of proposal for renewal of grant:
The Organisations granted financial assistance would mandatorily organize at least two cultural activities (function, lecture, seminar, workshop, exhibition, etc.) in any of the schools in their vicinity. A certificate to this effect from the Principal of the school would be a mandatory requirement for the renewal and release of the grant.
Organizations getting financial assistance under the scheme are required to upload videos of their Production/Function/Seminar etc. on YouTube and provide a link to the YouTube/Facebook/Twitter page of the Ministry of Culture and this will be a pre-requisite condition for renewal of the scheme and comments received from the general public on their uploaded videos/material will also be taken into account for renewal of the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: An advertisement will be placed annually on the Website of the National School of Drama, New Delhi and Ministry of Culture. The application form and full details of the Scheme are available on the website of the Ministry of Culture.
Step 02: The Organizations may submit the applications for the coming financial year, before last date of advertisement, which will be evaluated periodically by the Expert Committee set up for the purpose.
Step 03: The hard copy of the application along with all the necessary enclosures as mentioned in the scheme and application form & check-list should be sent to  “The Director, National School of Drama, Bahawalpur House, Plot No. 1, Bhagwan Das Road, New Delhi-110001”
Note 01: The application should be duly recommended by concerned State Governments /U.T. Administrations or any of the State Academies or National Academies including National School of Drama (NSD), Kalakshetra Foundation, Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT), Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), Zonal Cultural Centers (ZCCs) and bodies of similar stature.
Note 02: All registered organizations that want to apply under the Scheme are required to first sign up/register with NGO-PS Portal(NGO-DARPAN): https://ngodarpan.gov.in/ mandatorily to obtain a system generated Unique ID and must include ‘Art and Culture’ in their key working areas. 
Note 03: The organisations already registered with NGODARPAN portal are requested to add/update their information in the said portal with Aadhaar & PAN Numbers of their Board members/Office bearers, if not done already.
Note 04: The application must be accompanied by all the relevant documents. Any application submitted without these documents is liable to be rejected.
Note 05: The envelope super scribed as “Application for renewal/enhancement/fresh category under the scheme of Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant) for the financial year .........” within the prescribed date (as mentioned in advertisement published by NSD) for submission of application under the Scheme.
Note 06: National School of Drama (NSD) under Ministry of Culture will notify the 'Scheme' annually through NSD's/Ministry's websites: https://nsd.gov.in/delhi/
Note 07: Separate application may be submitted for Renewal and Enhancement of Repertory Grant, but both
the applications should be submitted together in a single envelope.
Note 08: The application for enhancement of artists will be considered only if sufficient justification with necessary supporting documents is furnished for this and the applications for renewal and enhancement are received together.


Mode of Selection:
1. Financial Assistance under the scheme will be considered and recommended by the Expert Committee constituted for the purpose. The constitution of the Expert Committee will be approved by the Ministry. The Expert Committee will give justification on case to case basis for its recommendations.
2. The scrutiny of applications by the Expert Committee will be done periodically subject to the availability of funds and applications for the grant.
3. Initially the scheme for new organizations may be for one Guru and two Artists which may be gradually increased up to one Guru and eighteen Artists. However, the increase should not be more than 100% of the existing strength at any point of time and for dance and music, it should not exceed one Guru and ten Artists.
4. Keeping in view the budgetary constraints and in order to give opportunity to new Artists group/organizations, 10% of the existing organizations getting financial assistance under the scheme may be phased out every year. Criteria of phasing out may be past performance, reputation, art of working (rare/ traditional / experimental /innovative/original/endangered art form etc.).
5. There will be personal interaction for renewal of scheme proposals.
Documents Required
Brief introduction of applicant organization along with press reviews, press advertisements, souvenir copies of tickets, etc. in respect of the previous year’s activities of the organization.
Photocopy of the Registration Certificate and Memorandum of Association/Deed, Bye-laws.
A copy of the Unique ID number of the organization was obtained from the NGO-PS (NGO-DARPAN) Portal.
A copy of the Permanent Account Number (PAN) issued by the Income Tax Department.
Duly filled-in Resolution in the prescribed format (in original).
Duly filled in indemnity Bond in the prescribed format (in original), signed on every page by the authorized signatory with the stamp of the organization along with the signature of two witnesses with their name and complete address at the given place.
Complete details of Guru/Director and Shisya/Artists enrolled with the organization for which financial assistance is sought along with their respective bank account details. In case there is any change in the existing Guru/Shishya due to resigning/joining the organization, the revised details of Guru/Shishya along with their respective bank account details must be intimated to the Ministry immediately after such changes in the prescribed format.
Justification for seeking financial assistance as Fresh Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant) or Renewal of Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant) or Enhancement of Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant).
Last three years’ audited statement of accounts along with sources and pattern of receipt & payment and income & expenditure etc., covering all the activities of the organization.
Last three years’ Income Tax Assessment orders.
Last three years’ balance sheet with auditor’s certificate.
Utilization Certificate (in original) in the prescribed format (i.e. FORM GFR 12-A) and receipts & payment statement (in original) issued by Chartered Accountant (CA) on his/her letterhead (membership number of the CA should be indicated on the letterhead) duly countersigned by the authorized signatory of the grantee organization with a stamp in respect of last grant received by the organization.
Press reviews, press advertisements, souvenir copies of tickets, etc. of the productions of the previous years.
Documentary proof to the effect that the grantee organization has transferred the cash component of the last year’s grant received electronically against the bank account of each and every individual beneficiary (i.e. Guru and Shishya/Artists) (viz. copy of bank statement of each and every individual beneficiary) [this is a mandatory condition for renewal of Financial Assistance for Promotion of Guru-Shishya Parampara (Repertory Grant)]
A duly filled-in and signed prescribed Bank Proforma/Authorization letter which is verified and signed by the Manager of the concerned Bank (in original).
Duly filled-in checklist accompanied with the application form.
The application should be duly recommended by concerned State Governments /U.T. Administrations or any of the State Academies or National Academies including the National School of Drama (NSD), Kalakshetra Foundation, Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT), Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), Zonal Cultural Centres (ZCCs) and bodies of similar stature. In this regard, a recommendation letter obtained in the prescribed format (in original) should be enclosed with the application form.
Annual action plan of the organization (along with proof), indicating, inter-alia, the following-
Details of at least two cultural activities (function, lecture, seminar, workshop, exhibition, etc.) organized by the organization in any of the schools in their vicinity. A certificate to this effect from the Principal of the school should be enclosed mandatorily for renewal and release of the grant.
details regarding the annual programme of at least two productions to be staged [in not more than 150 typed-written words (out of these two, at least one production must be a new production i.e. which has not been staged earlier)] with their estimated cost indicating item-wise details viz. cost of rehearsals, costumes, transportation, research, scripting, staging, etc.; and
Proof of uploading videos of their Production/Function/Seminar etc. on YouTube & providing a link to the YouTube/Facebook/Twitter page of the Ministry of Culture [this will be a pre-requisite condition for renewal of the scheme] along with a hard copy of the comments received from the general public on their uploaded videos/material [this will also be taken into account for renewal of grant].
Note: Exemption would be given to the Padma awardees from getting the recommendation from concerned State Governments/UT Administrations or any of the State Academies or National Academies including the National School of Drama, Kalakshetra Foundation, Centre for Cultural Resources and Training, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), Zonal Cultural Centres and bodies of similar nature.
