National Awards For Outstanding Services In The Field Of Prevention Of Alcoholism And Substance (Drug) Abuse: Best Educational Institution Doing Outstanding Work In Awareness Generation And Prevention Of Alcoholism And Substance (Drug) Abuse
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
AlcoholismAwardDrug AbuseRehabilitation
Details
The Scheme of "National Awards for Outstanding Services in the field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse" by the MoSJE, GoI shall be applicable to Institutions and Individuals working in the field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse. In order to recognize the efforts, and, encourage excellence in the Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drugs) Abuse and rehabilitation of its victims, awards will be presented, once in two years starting from the year 2016, for the most effective or outstanding  services as individuals as well as institutions in the prevention of abuse of:
(a) Alcohol
(b) Narcotic Drugs
(c) Psychotropic Substances
(d) Other Addictive Substances (Except tobacco and its products) e.g. cough syrups, correction fluid, etc

The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is the nodal Ministry for drug demand reduction. It coordinates and monitors all aspects of drug abuse prevention, including assessment of the extent of the problem, preventive action, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, dissemination of information and public education. The Ministry provides community-based services for the identification, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts through voluntary organizations. The awards (generally one in each category) will be presented, once in two years starting from 26th June 2016, which has been declared by the United Nations, as the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.

Benefits
Decoration
The Awardee is given a Citation, Memento, and a Cash award of ₹ 2,00,000.

No. of Awardees
The total number of Awardees is 7 (Seven).
Each Category of Award has 1 Awardee.

Presentation of Award (Ceremony Details)
The awards shall be conferred on the awardees in a function to be held in New Delhi on the 26th June of the year, which has been declared as the “International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”.
The Awards shall be presented by the President of India or the Prime Minister of India. 
The boarding and lodging expenses of the awardees including one companion for each awardee shall be borne by the Central Government. 
To and fro travelling expenses and accommodation for up to one day prior to and after the date of the Award ceremony (depending upon the actual arrival and departure dates) shall be arranged or expenditure reimbursed by the Central Government. 
Before the announcement of the Awards, the concurrence of the prospective awardees or institutions shall be suitably ascertained.
Eligibility
For Award
The awards are open to all Indian Institutions, Organizations and Individuals without any distinction or discrimination on grounds of religion, race, sex, caste or creed.
It would be necessary that the nominee is recommended in writing by someone authorized to recommend the nominations.
The Self-nominations for the Awards shall not be considered.
No individual or organization who has been awarded should be considered for the National Award under this Scheme for the next three awards.

Agencies/Persons Authorized to Nominate and recommend eligible institutions or individuals for the Awards
Concerned Ministries or Departments of the Government of India and their autonomous institutions with the approval of the Minister-in-charge of the Ministry. 
State Governments or Union Territory Administrations with the approval of the concerned Chief Minister or Lt. Governors in Union Territory Administrations; 
Regional Resource and Training Centres working in the field of drug de-addiction within their own jurisdiction; 
Members of the National Consultative Committee on De-addiction and Rehabilitation (NCCDR); 
Renowned Apex Chambers like the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry, The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India, etc; 
Past Awardees. 
Organizations like University Grand Commission(UGC), All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE), Medical Council of India(MCI), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan(NYKS), Universities, 
Central Board of Secondary Education(CBSE), National Council of Educational Research and Training(NCERT), Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan(KVS), Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti(NVS), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(CSIR), etc; and 
Collector of the District/District Magistrate in which the Institution or Individual is working. 
Commissioner of Commissionerate in which the Institution or Individual is working. 
NOTE: Only nominations or recommendations emanating from Authorised Agencies or persons, designated for the purpose, supported by adequate justification, shall be considered.

For Nominations - 
A.   For a University or College Institution imparting post-matric education which has made an outstanding contribution to awareness generation and prevention of alcoholism and substance (drug) abuse is eligible for the award. 
B.   An Educational Institution, to be eligible, should have: 
been working in the field of prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) abuse for at least five years [preference shall be given to those institutions who are continuing in the field]; 
been involved in creating awareness about the ill effects of alcohol and drugs amongst students, and youth in colleges or universities on a regular basis; 
been collaborating with various departments of the State Government or UT Administration towards developing a policy for alcohol and drug demand reduction; 
involved in motivating students and youth to stay away from alcohol and drugs; 
been supporting a family of youth addicts; 
been taking proactive measures towards reducing the availability of alcohol and drugs in the community; 
been actively involved in networking with Non-Governmental organisations, and Community-based organisations and facilitating the implementation of prevention programmes; 
adopted in its curriculum lessons on alcohol and drugs; and 
created visibility through media and other programmes in promoting alcohol and drug-free lifestyle. 
Application Process
Online
The agencies or persons, authorized to nominate and recommend eligible institutions or individuals, should submit the application of the nominee in the Prescribed Proforma online on the National Awards Portal, Ministry of Home Affairs.
Note: The Application should be in Hindi or English language only.

Selection of Awardees
A Screening Committee and Selection Committee shall be constituted for the purpose which shall consider the achievements of the Institutions and the Individuals nominated or recommended for the Awards by the prescribed authority and the outstanding contribution in the field shall be the primary consideration in identifying the recipients of Awards.
A National Selection Committee shall consider the recommendations of the Screening Committee and would approve the names of awardees, one for each category of the awards. 
Documents Required
For Individuals
Identity Proof (Passport/Election ID Card/Govt. Authorized ID Card/Driving License/Pan Card)
Date of Birth Certificate
Proof of Educational Qualifications or Credentials (Passing Certificate, Marksheet)
Professional Experience (posts or positions held in relation to the field of alcohol or drug use) indicating the nature of the posts or positions held- government, non-government, a voluntary, corporate or private firm and also if it was an honorary or paid position)
Publications/books/articles etc
Proof of notable contribution
Proof Awards/Honors received (details of felicitation by any other agency in the past, i.e. name of the agency or organization which conferred the award/recognition, year and the programme or activities or achievement)
Contribution & outstanding achievements in the Drug De-Addiction field (details of work done in terms of awareness generation, prevention, treatment, training, publication, research or advocacy and area of work including years of work, the district or State where worked)

For Institutes/Organizations
Certificate of Registration, Memorandum of Association (as voluntary or a nonprofit organization or public sector company or private sector company)
Proof of Category of Organisation (viz. IRCA or RRTC or NGO or PSU or private sector company)
Proof of Address (for communication)
Minutes of the General Body Meeting held during the last five years
Annual Report for the last five years
Balance Sheet (Audited Annual Accounts) for the last five years
Copies of publications/books/articles etc
Copies of Honours received including the felicitation by any other agency in the past (award or recognition, year and the programme / activities / achievement)
Any other reports or documents which highlight the contribution & outstanding achievements in Drug De-Addiction/Treatment 
Proof reg. the projects in the field of alcohol and drug use undertaken in the past 10 years with financial support from other agencies
NOTE: In case, an individual is recommending Institutions or Organizations, the above documents need not be enclosed. However, the documents, if readily available, may be enclosed.
