Financial Assistance To Ex-Convicts
Kerala
BPLEx-ConvictFinancial AssistanceJailSelf-employment
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Ex-Convicts” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. This scheme is implemented by the Department of Social Justice to help those released from jail from poor economic conditions to find their livelihood. As part of this scheme, one-time financial assistance is provided to those released from jail to find self-employment and start some small Industry/Trade as part of social rehabilitation. 
      The age-old idea was that the offender should be confined to prison and kept away from the community as long as possible. But, in the course of time, it has been realized that the protection of society is better ensured if the offender is corrected and reformed through individualized treatments. Therefore, the Government of Kerala has started this scheme and providing financial assistance to them. Thus, by utilizing this amount of assistance Ex-Convicts shall be engaged in small-scale income-generating activities.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the maximum amount of financial assistance is ₹15,000/- per person will be provided to the eligible beneficiary as one-time assistance.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
The applicant should be Ex-Convict (released from jail from poor economic conditions).
The applicant should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Copy of Aadhaar card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport Size Photo
Copy of ration card (submit the page containing the name of the ration card holder and the page containing the family members together) 
Project proposal of the proposed work/business 
Release Certificate from Jail (or attestation from Superintendent of Jail where applicable) 
Copy of Bank Passbook- Bank account details
Other documents, if any
