Marriage Assistance To Differently Abled Women (Parinayam-II)
Kerala
Differently Abled WomenFinancial AssistanceMarriageUnmarried
Details
The scheme “Marriage Assistance to Differently Abled Women (Parinayam-II)” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, the Government of Kerala is providing marriage assistance of ₹30,000/- to differently-abled girls who have completed 18 years of age for their marriage.

Benefits
A one-time assistance of ₹30,000/- is provided to the eligible beneficiaries.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Kerala.
The parents of differently abled girls or differently abled girls should be eligible to apply under the scheme.
The girl who intends to be married should have completed 18 years of age. 
The combined annual family income should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-.
Note 01: After receiving the financial aid as per these terms and conditions, if the marriage has to be dissolved for any reason and the girl has to marry a second time, the financial aid can be given for the second marriage.
Note 02: If the applicant with disabilities dies before the marriage of the daughters, the said financial assistance can be given to the eldest member of the family or any other member of the family who is responsible for conducting the marriage. 
Note 03: In case the applicant PWD dies after the marriage of his daughter but before receiving financial assistance, the senior member of the family or the married member or the individual can be given financial assistance on a suitable bond. 
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Note: The application should be submitted at least one month before the date fixed for the marriage. But if the bride is from a Muslim community, the date of the marriage after the religious ceremony called Nikah should be considered for determining the period of application.
Documents Required
Identity card i.e. Aadhaar Card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Certificate to prove the age of the girl
Copy of Disability Identification Card (UDID Card) / Disability Medical Certificate
Attested copy of Ration card
Applicant's Marriage Certificate/Marriage Confirmation Details
Copy of Family Income certificate
Fiancé's Affidavit
Bank details- Copy of Pass Book
Other documents, if any
