Financial Assistance to Sportspersons to Pursue Sports Coaching Courses Conducted by SAI, NSNIS, Patiala as a Part of Skill Development Programme to Improve their Employability
Odisha
BPLFinancial AssistanceNSNISSAISkill DevelopmentSports CoachingSportsperson
Details
The Scheme “Financial Assistance to Sportspersons to Pursue Sports Coaching Courses Conducted by SAI, NSNIS, Patiala as a Part of Skill Development Programme to Improve their Employability” was launched by the Department of Sports & Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to provide financial assistance to sportspersons of Odisha to help them become qualified coaches, by undertaking SAI, NSNIS coaching courses, so as to improve their employability.

Benefits
Sportspersons who apply and get selected to undergo SAl, NSNIS conducted coaching courses will be provided financial assistance as follows:-
Sportspersons under the BPL category: 100% Course Fee plus an amount of ₹10,000/- for Diploma and long-term courses and ₹5,000/- for Six Weeks Certificate Courses to meet traveling and other miscellaneous expenses.
Sportspersons of Non-BPL category: 75% of the Course Fee plus an amount ₹5,000/- for Diploma and long-term courses and ₹2,500/- for Six Weeks Certificate Courses to meet traveling and other miscellaneous expenses.
Eligibility
The applicant belonging to the BPL or Non-BPL category both are eligible.
Sportspersons who have represented the Districts of Odisha, Odisha State, and its Universities in Sports & Games and who are found eligible to undergo the academic courses as laid down by SAI, NSNIS under its eligibility criteria only will be eligible under the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: SAI, NSNIS, Patiala brings out an advertisement in the month of Jan/Feb every year about its forthcoming Courses and also uploads the details on its website: https://nsnis.org/
Step 02: Interested sportspersons who are eligible to undergo these Courses can apply to SAI, NSNIS, Patiala on their own by paying the required application fee.
NSNIS Registration Process:
Step 01: Interested sportspersons can create a new account to register by providing the necessary details such as name, mobile number, email ID, and generate a password.
Step 02: Complete the registration process and fill out the application form with personal and educational details.
Step 03: Upload the required documents, including a passport-size photograph, attested BPL card, Aadhaar card, education certificate, achievement certificate, and a medical fitness certificate.
Step 04: Pay the application fee and take a printout of the application form.
Step 05: If selected for SAI, NSNIS coaching courses, submit the application form with the selection letter to the commissioner-cum-secretary, sports and Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha.
Note: Sports & Youth Service Department finding the application genuine and eligible, shall sanction the financial assistance and remit the Course Fee directly to the SAI Bank account and the other amount to the bank Account of the applicant.
Modality of implementation of the Scheme:
Names of the applicants who are found eligible to undergo these Courses are uploaded on the SAI, NSNIS website, and individual letters are also sent to the selected applicants by SAI asking them to deposit the required Course Fee.
The selected applicant, if desirous of availing financial assistance from the State Government, is required to submit an application to the Sports & YS Dept. for financial assistance under the scheme. The application should be addressed to Commissioner-cum-Secretary, Sports & YS Dept. Govt. of Odisha accompanied with the letter of selection received from SAI, NSNIS, Patiala, or in case the letter is not received in time, print out of the website page displaying his/her selection along with a copy of his/her original application form submitted to SAI, NSNIS, Patiala. The applicant, if belongs to the BPL Category, must also submit a duly attested copy of the BPL Card along with the application failing which he/she will be treated as a non-BPL applicant.
In the case of a BPL Category applicant, the concerned District Sports Officer shall be asked to inquire into the BPL status of the applicant and get a certificate to that effect from the respective Block Development Officer and forward the same to the Dept.
Sports & YS Department, on finding the application genuine and eligible, shall sanction the financial assistance and remit the Course Fee directly to the SAI Bank Account and the other amount to the bank Account of the applicant.
In case of a large number of eligible applicants submitting applications for financial assistance, BPL applicants will get priority over non-BPL applicants. Amongst the BPL and non-BPL categories, an applicant shall be given priority if his/her career sporting achievements are better than others.
The beneficiary candidates who avail financial assistance from the govt. in prosecuting NSNIS course are to render two years’ service in the Sports & Youth Services Deptt. for coaching if the Deptt. will requisition their service with the benefits as per the rule in vogue given to the coaches at that time.
Disclaimer:
The scheme is intended only to enhance the employability of sportspersons of Odisha willing to take up sports coaching as a career option. This is just a skill development initiative. Sports & Youth Services Department, Odisha shall not be under any obligation to employ/engage/recruit the beneficiaries under its establishment after completion of their Courses. The beneficiaries are expected to search for jobs/engagements elsewhere on their own. If at any point in time the Sports and Youth Services Department issues advertisements for employment/engagement/recruitment of qualified Coaches under its own establishment, the eligible beneficiaries may apply for such opportunities. However, for such a selection process, the beneficiaries of the scheme not be given any preference whatsoever over other eligible applicants not availing any benefit under this scheme.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Attested BPL card (If applicable)
Aadhaar card
Education certificates
Achievement certificates
Medical Fitness certificates
Any other documents as required
