AICTE-LILAVATI AWARD
Ministry of Education
AICTEFinancial AssistanceWomen Empowerment
Details
AICTE-LILAVATI AWARD , launched by the intends to recognize efforts being made by AICTE approved institutions to treat women with ‘equality and fairness’ in all spheres of their lives. By means of this initiative, all the stakeholders (especially the girl students) in AICTE approved institutions would get a unique opportunity to present a solution to the prevalent issues of gender discrimination, such as illiteracy, unemployment, economic and nutritional disparities, maternal mortality, human rights, etc. Also, if anyone has already made a successful effort towards making a mark in the society, in establishing women’s emancipation/ empowerment at large, she/ he can showcase their efforts/ contributions.
Objectives:
To create awareness about the importance of issues like sanitation, hygiene, health, and nutrition using indigenous knowledge of existing resources.
To create awareness about issues like literacy, employment, technology, credit, marketing, innovation, skill development, natural resources and rights among women. Improve digital literacy to empower women to use mobile phone apps, financial literacy, online banking, access websites & portals through the internet, using debit & credit cards etc.
To work towards development of the girl child and adolescents, and the welfare of women by generating awareness on gender equality and providing access to services. Educate the marginalized women and adolescent girls about the intergenerational cycle of malnutrition and the lifelong damaging effects, and thereupon educate them on nutrition, food security, sexual and reproductive health, and health services.
To make women knowledgeable about various policies & schemes of Central & State Governments regarding Women & Child development and take avail benefits of these schemes. Providing access to services and benefits of schemes.
For promoting and practicing ideas of self-reliance and gender equity. Develop self-dependence, entrepreneurial skills & self-employment amongst rural women.
To bring about empowerment of communities, hence the footprint of such activities may also encompass neighboring/ surrounding villages/areas through community mobilization, and promoting participatory approaches for development.
To promote competitive spirit and encourage more active participation of girls in sports.
To encourage young girls to join different vocations in micro/macro enterprises and various professions, including para-military forces, police etc. as career options.
Targeted Sub-Themes:
AICTEs Lilavati Award 2021-22 intends to seek applications from the eligible teams, who have undertaken remarkable intervention for the cause and made an impact, in the form of a short video clip (not more than 4-5 minutes duration) that showcases their work under the following sub- themes: -
Women and Adolescent Health: Issues related to nutrition, maternal mortality, women and adolescents’ reproductive and sexual health, cancer, pregnancy issues - prenatal and post-natal, depression and anxiety, child care, etc.
Self Defence: Training/ awareness programs for safety measures - girl child safety, domestic violence, work place harassment, confidence building programs, etc.
Environment, Sanitation & Hygiene: Hygienic surroundings in the community, keeping environment clean, home & environment hygiene, water conservation, clean environment etc.
Literacy and Life Skills: Basic education, formal and non-formal education (functional literacy), digital literacy, awareness against taboos, etc. Reduce dropout rates of girl students at pre-secondary, secondary & Senior Secondary stages through provision of toilets in schools to reduce dropout rates.
Women Entrepreneurship: Financial safety, business opportunities, Government schemes, credit, etc. Linking women to credit, microfinance, banks, forming cooperatives / SHGs, forming groups in villages for helping in decision making, skilling work eg. at least one family member to earn income through innovation. Generate visible improvement in entrepreneurship & self-employment amongst women.
Legal Awareness: Women`s rights & duties, gender equality in society & work place.
Technology for Women: Innovative technology used for women empowerment in areas like handicraft, weaving, craftsmanship, promoting business through digital means, development of mobile app, etc.
Women Innovators (Rural/Urban): Identifying/ training/supporting/promoting women innovators, patent filling etc.

Benefits
Award and Recognition of the work:
The award in the form of prize money will be given to the 24 winning teams (three under each sub-theme) as follows:
1. Winner: ₹ 1,00,000/-
2. First Runner-up: ₹ 75,000/-
3. Second Runner-up: ₹ 50,000/-
Eligibility
Institutional/ Team Level comprises either of students/ faculty/ both from AICTE approved technical institution/Deemed to be University.
Had undertaken remarkable intervention in the various sub-themes and made an impact in the society.
The team has to showcase their work undertaken in the last two years from the date of announcement of the award for the cause of women empowerment.
Note: The maximum team size will be 5 members having a minimum of 2 (two) women members.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Visit https://lilavati.aicte-india.org/signup
Insert Permanent Institute ID(PID) by clicking on 'Get Details' button.
Then enter Email ID and set a password. Click on 'Sign Up'.
After clicking 'Sign Up', institute will receive email for activation of account. 
Post-Registraion Process:
Visit https://lilavati.aicte-india.org/login
Enter your Email and Password. Click on 'Sign In'.
Fill 'Institute Details' and 'HOI Details'.
Click on 'Faculty' tab to view Faculty Details.
Click on 'Application Form 1' and fill all the required details of the Institute.
Click on the 'Check Box' and then on 'Submit' button.
Click on 'Next' Button to submit Part 2 of application.
Under 'Application Form II' tab click on 'Create New Application'.
Select 'Theme' and 'Category'.
Fill 'Institute Details' and click on 'Submit'. Then Add 'Faculty Details'.
Click 'Get List of Faculties'. Copy 'Faculty ID'. Paste 'Faculty ID'. Click on 'Submit'.
Then fill 'Student Details'.
Click'Next'. Click on 'Create New Activity' for ﻿entering details of ﻿the activities ﻿performed by Team (Max 5 activities per theme).
Fill required details and upload all the necessary files then click on 'Save as Draft'.
Now click on 'Preview and Submit'. Then click on 'Part II saved application'.
Now click on 'Submit Application'.
Click on 'Create New Application' to Submit New Application for new theme (Max 5 Applications per institute for different themes are allowed).
Documents Required
Geotagged photograph of the location where the program/ intervention/ activity has been executed (If multiple please combine them in the form of pdf) (Format: pdf, Maximum Size: 5 MB)
Proof such as Appreciation Letter issued by the Government/ Institution/ Any Organization etc (If more than one, please convert into single PDF and upload maximum 5) (Format: pdf, Maximum Size: 5 MB)
Photographs related to interventions/programs/activities (With Geotagging/ screenshots of properties of photographs, 20 Maximum) (Format: pdf, Maximum Size: 5 MB)
 Media clippings/ coverage related to interventions/ programs/ activities (In Print and Electronic Media (with screen grabs of news stories on Electronic medias) (Format: pdf, Maximum Size: 5 MB)
Video of high resolution related to interventions/ programs/ activities (Not more than 4-5 minutes duration) (Format: Video, Maximum Size: 150 MB)
Declaration for nomination of application (Download and take the print out of Annexure-I then reupload it with seal and stamp)
