Export Promotion Council Membership Reimbursement Scheme for Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Business & EntrepreneurshipFinancial AssistanceMembership FeeReimbursementScheduled CasteScheduled TribeSubscription Fee
Details
Launched by the Ministry Of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Export Promotion Council Membership Reimbursement Scheme is a sub scheme under National Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Hub (NSSH) scheme. Under this scheme, reimbursement will be provided to an Scheduled Caste (SC)/Scheduled Tribe (ST) Micro & small enterprises(MSEs), on annual membership subscription fee/one-time subscription charges/entry fee charged by various Export Promotion Councils (EPC).

Benefits
Reimbursement of 80% or ₹ 20,000/- (excluding GST and other applicable taxes), whichever is less, in a financial year to SC/ST MSEs on annual membership subscription fee / one time subscription charges / entry fee charged by various Export Promotion Councils (EPC).
Eligibility
Applicant should belong to Scheduled Caste(SC)/Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. 
He/She should represent any Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs).
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit https://www.scsthub.in/nssh-schemes/.
Step 02: From the scheme list select “Export Promotion Council Membership Fee Reimbursement Scheme” by clicking on it.
Step 03: On the pop up click on Apply Here button.
Step 04: On the next page enter your Full Name, Valid Email ID, Mobile Number, and Password.
Step 05: Now verify the captcha and click on Submit button.
Step 06: Once the account is created Log in with the credentials and furnish all the details as required.
Documents Required
Self-certified copy of Udyam Registration.
Self-certified copy GST Number (if applicable)
Self-certified copy PAN card case of proprietorship, PAN card of SC/ST proprietor ought to be submitted
Self-certified copy of Caste certificate of proprietor/ all partners/ directors
Details of shareholding in case of partnership / Pvt. Ltd / LLP firm. In case of partnership concerns, shareholding of the enterprise would be required to ascertain status of the MSE as SC/ST MSE (shareholding of SC/ST entrepreneur to be > 51%). Attested copy of Partnership Deed for Partnership Firm / Memorandum and Article of Association in case of LLP/Private Limited Company are required 
Attested copy of Certificate of valid Import & Export Code (IEC) allotted by the concerned office of the Joint/ Dy. Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) 
Attested copy of valid Registration Cum Membership Certificate (RCMC) issued by the respective Export Promotion Council (EPC) post registration
Original/ Attested copy of Registration Cum Membership Certificate (RCMC) issued earlier by the respective EPC, in case of existing members renewing their memberships
Proof of transferred amount as reimbursement by NSSHO/ NSIC through PFMS under the scheme, where any such assistance is availed earlier with in the same financial year
Attested (signature with stamp) or original copy of membership fee payment receipt and system generated GST invoice (with breakup of fees paid (entrance fee, annual membership/subscription fee)) for total amount paid to respective Export Promotion Councils (EPCs)
Cancelled Cheque of the current account of the enterprise from which the EPC membership fee has been debited
