Reimbursement of College Fees for Scheduled Caste Students in Professional Colleges (Top 20)
Puducherry
CollegeFeesReimbursementScheduled CasteTuition
Details
The scheme “Reimbursement of College Fees for Scheduled Caste Students in Professional Colleges (Top 20)” by the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry was introduced to provide financial assistance to deserving Scheduled Caste students pursuing professional education. Through this scheme, reimbursement of tuition fees and examination fees is facilitated for students who have achieved marks above 75% in the Higher Secondary Course Examination and secured a place in the 'Top 20' Rank. The scheme aims to alleviate the financial burden on eligible students.

Benefits
Reimbursement of Tuition Fees and Examination Fees.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should have secured a place in the 'Top 20' Rank.
The applicant should have secured above 75% in the Higher Secondary Course Examination.
The applicant should be pursuing a professional education.
The applicant should have been selected through 'CENTAC' for admission to a professional college.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Bank Passbook.
Educational Certificate/s.
Caste Certificate.
Certificate of Head of Institution.
Original Fee Receipt.
High School Certificate Marklist.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
