Opening and Maintenance of Boys and Girls Hostels
Puducherry
BoardingCollegeHostelLodgingSchoolStudent
Details
The scheme "Opening and Maintenance of Boys and Girls Hostels” by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry, provides boarding/lodging and hostel facilities to the Scheduled Caste students in pursuance of their education and to dissuade dropping of education at school and college level.

Benefits
Free Lodging.
Free Boarding.
Cash Payment in Lieu of 2 Pairs of Clothing.
Conveyance Charges for 6 Times (3 Down and 3 Up) in a Year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for not less than 5 years.
For Other Economically Backward Classes, the Income of the parent/guardian should not exceed ₹ 75,000/-.
The Parent/Guardian of the applicant should not be living within a radius of 5 km from the hostel.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, click "Register a New Membership".
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Signup".
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Sign In".
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Department-wise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating "I hereby declare that the above-mentioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge". Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
*Track Your Application here
* Access the User Manual for Online Application here
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Caste Certificate.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Bank Passbook.
Income Certificate.
Attested Copies of Qualifying Certificates in Respect of Exam Passed.
Birth Certificate.
Bonafide Certificate.
Recommendation From the Previous Hostel Warden.
Transfer Certificate.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
