Incentive Award to Inter-Caste Married Couples
Puducherry
BrideFinancial AssistanceGroomIntercasteMarriageScheduled Caste
Details
The scheme “Incentive Award to Inter-Caste Married Couples” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to reduce the effect of untouchability and as a step towards bringing about a casteless society.

Benefits
An award with a value of ₹ 50,000/- (₹ 20,000/ - in cash, and ₹ 30,000/- in the form of a National Saving Certificate).
Eligibility
The bride and groom should be citizens of India.
The marriage should be performed between Scheduled Caste and other communities. 
The marriage should be registered.
The marriage should be taking place for the first time between the bride and groom.
Both bride and groom or either of them should be a native of Puducherry.
The application should be submitted within 60 days from the date of performance of marriage.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, click "Register a New Membership".
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Signup".
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Sign In".
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Department-wise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating "I hereby declare that the above-mentioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge". Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
*Track Your Application here
* Access the User Manual for Online Application here
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate.
Aadhaar Card of the Bride.
Aadhaar Card of the Bridegroom.
Bank Pass Book of the Joint A/C.
Birth Certificate or TC of the Bride.
Birth Certificate or TC of the Bridegroom.
Caste Certificate of the Bride.
Caste Certificate of the Bridegroom.
First Marriage Certificate obtained from MLA/MP.
Marriage Registration Certificate.
NOC from the State Government.
Recent passport-size photograph of the Applicant.
Voter Card of the Bride.
Voter Card of the Bridegroom.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
