Grant Of Incentive For Marriage Between Differently Abled Person And Normal Persons
Puducherry
DisabilityIncentiveMarriagePwD
Details
The scheme “Grant Of Incentive For Marriage Between Differently Abled Person And Normal Persons” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry was introduced to encourage and support marriages between differently-abled individuals and those without disabilities. Through this scheme, an incentive of ₹1,00,000/- is provided, comprising ₹20,000 in cash and ₹80,000/- in the form of National Savings Certificate (NSC).

Benefits
An incentive of ₹1,00,000/- (₹20,000 in cash and ₹80,000/- in NSC).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/- per annum.
The bride should be above 18 years of age.
The bridegroom should be above 21 years of age.
The disability of the applicant should be 40% and above.
The marriage should be the first marriage between the bride and the groom.
The marriage should have been registered.
The application should be submitted within 120 days after marriage.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Aadhaar Card 1st Applicant.
Aadhaar Card 2nd Applicant.
Anganwadi Certificate 1st Applicant.
Anganwadi Certificate 2nd Applicant if From Pondicherry (Mandatory for Differently Abled Person).
Birth Certificate 1st Applicant.
Birth Certificate 2nd Applicant.
Community Certificate 1st Applicant.
Disability Financial Assistance Card 1st Applicant.
Disability Financial Assistance Card 2nd Applicant (Mandatory for Differently Abled Person).
Income Certificate 1st Applicant.
Marriage Certificate.
Marriage Invitation.
Marriage Joint Photo.
Medical Certificate 1st Applicant.
Medical Certificate 2nd Applicant (Mandatory for Differently Abled Person).
NOC 2nd Applicant if from other state (Mandatory for Differently Abled Person).
Ration Card 1st Applicant.
Ration Card 2nd Applicant.
Residence Certificate 1st Applicant.
Voter Card 1st Applicant.
Voter Card 2nd Applicant.
