Perunthalaivar Karma Veerar Kamarajar Scheme of Financial Assistance Towards Funeral Expenses of the Differently Abled Persons
Puducherry
DeathDisabilityFinancial AssistanceFuneral
Details
The scheme “Perunthalaivar Karma Veerar Kamarajar Scheme of Financial Assistance Towards Funeral Expenses of the Differently Abled Persons" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, financial assistance of ₹ 15,000/- is provided to meet the expenses in connection with funeral, in the event of the death of the differently abled person concerned.

Benefits
On the death of the differently abled person, financial assistance of ₹ 15,000/- shall be paid to the claimant.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
The claimant should be son/daughter/spouse or any other close relative under whose care and maintenance the differently abled person was living.
The application shall be made within 30 days from the date of death of the differently abled person.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of the Deceased.
Aadhaar Card of the Claimant.
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, Issued by the Competent Authority.
Recent Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Disability Certificate / Medical Certificate.
Inhumation Permit / Death Certificate.
Anganwadi Certificate.
Community Certificate.
Financial Assistance ID Card of Deceased.
Voter Card.
