Mukhya Mantri Yuva Udyami Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
BankBusinessEntrepreneurshipFinancial AssistanceLoanMSME
Details
The scheme "Mukhya Mantri Yuva Udyami Yojana" was launched on 1st August 2014 by the Department of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The scheme provides loans of up to ₹10,00,000 to ₹2,00,00,000 to the citizens of Madhya Pradesh who want to set up their industries.

Benefits
Financial assistance:
Margin money assistance
15% of the capital cost of the project for the general category. (Maximum ₹ 12,00,000.)
20% of the capital cost of the project for BPL (Maximum ₹ 18,00,000)
 Interest subsidy
At the rate of 5% per annum on the capital cost of the project and at the rate of 6% per annum for women entrepreneurs, for a maximum of 7 years. (Maximum Rs 5,00,000 lakh per year)
The guarantee fee will be paid at the current rate for up to 7 years.
 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant should have passed Class 10th.
The applicant’s age should be between 18 to 40 years.
The benefit of this scheme can be availed only once.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the official website using the provided link
Step 2: The homepage will appear, and you need to click on the application link for the Mukhya Mantri Yuva Udyami Yojana 
Step 3: Various departments associated with the scheme will be displayed. Choose the department that interests you
Step 4: Choose the option for registration or sign-up if you are a new application. Click the submit button after entering your name, mobile number, password, and captcha code
Step 5: After submitting, you will be registered on the portal
Step 6: Now, you can log in to the portal and apply for the scheme.
Documents Required
Detailed Project Report
Madhya Pradesh Native Certificate
Certificate of Educational Qualification
date of birth certificate
If the land/building is on rent then the rent name
Quotations of current rates for machinery/equipment/ equipment
