Mukhya mantri Swarojgar Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
BankBusinessFinancial AssistanceLoanSelf Employment
Details
The Mukhya Mantri Swarojgar Yojana was launched on 1 August 2014 under The Department of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Madhya Pradesh government gives loans up to ₹50,000 to ₹10,00,000 to the state's citizens to establish employment so that all the citizens can start employment. Under Madhya Pradesh Mukhya Mantri Swarozgar Yojana, the government provides the benefit of money margin, interest subsidy, loan guarantee, and training to the beneficiaries. It provides a minimum period of 6 months and a maximum of 7 years to repay the loan payable by the bank.

Benefits
Financial help 
Margin money assistance
15% of the project cost (maximum ₹.1,00,000 for the general category.
 30% of the cost (maximum ₹2,00,000) for Below Poverty Line( BPL) , Scheduled Castes(SC)  , Scheduled Tribes(ST), Other Backward Classes(OBC) (except creamy layer)/ Women/ Minority/ Disabled project.
Additional provisions -
30% of the project cost (maximum ₹3,00,000 lakh) to the liberated nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes.
Bhopal gas victim family members are eligible for an additional 20% (maximum ₹1,00,000 on the project cost.
interest subsidy
At the rate of 5% per annum of the project cost and for women entrepreneurs at the rate of 6% per annum, for a maximum of 7 years. (Maximum ₹25,000 per annum)
Guarantee Fee (CGTMSE/: CGFMU) Up to a maximum of 7 years at the prevailing rate.
Eligibility
The applicant Should be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant should have passed in the 5th class.
The applicant’s age should be between 18 to 45 years.
The applicant’s family should not be an income taxpayer.
The applicant should not be a defaulter of any bank.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website using the provided link
Step 2: The homepage will appear, and you need to click on the application link for the Mukhya Mantri Swarozgar Yojana
Step 3: Various departments associated with the scheme will be displayed. Choose the department that interests you
Step 4: Choose the option for registration or sign-up if you are a new application. Click the submit button after entering your name, mobile number, password, and captcha code
Step 5: After submitting, you will be registered on the portal
Step 6: Now, you can log in to the portal and apply for the scheme.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card
Pan Card
Income certificate
Address proof
Passport size photo
Mobile number
5th class mark sheet
