Supply of Radio to the Blind Persons
Puducherry
BlindDifferently AbledDisabilityPwD
Details
The scheme “Supply of Radio to the Blind Persons" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, a radio is provided to the blind person for recreation. In order to be eligible, the applicant should have disability of 40% or above, and should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years. 

Benefits
A radio is provided to the blind person for recreation.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should be blind.
The applicant should have disability of 40% or above.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, Issued by the Competent Authority.
Recent Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Disability Certificate / Medical Certificate.
