Award of Scholarship to Differently Abled Person Students
Puducherry
AwardDisabilityPwDScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme “Award of Scholarship to Differently Abled Person Students” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry was introduced to provide scholarship to the differently abled persons who are students for enabling them to secure education. The assistance is extended to Student with Disabilities studying from Class 1st upto Postgraduate/ Professional courses.

Benefits
1st to 5th Standard: ₹ 1,000/- per year.
6th to 8th Standard: ₹ 2,000/- per year.
9th to 12th Standard: ₹ 3,400/- per year.
Undergraduate Course: ₹ 5,000/- per year.
Postgraduate/Professional Course: ₹ 6,800/- per year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have an annual income (from all sources) not exceeding ₹75,000/- per annum.
The disability of the applicant should be 40% and above.
The assistance is extended to Student with Disabilities studying from 1st Standard upto Postgraduate/Professional courses.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Birth Certificate.
Disability Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Community Certificate.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Financial Assistance ID Card.
Recommendation Letter from the HoD.
Bonafide Certificate from Educational Institution.
Declaration from the Parent or Guardian.
Previous Year Marksheets.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
