Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Persons with Disabilities
Tripura
DisabilityFinancial AssistancePensionPwDSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Persons with Disabilities" was launched by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura to provide financial assistance to Persons with Disabilities in the form of a monthly pension of ₹2,000/-.

Benefits
A pension amount of ₹2000/- per month, transferred directly to the bank account of the applicant.
NOTE: The list of beneficiaries will be made available on the official website of the Social Welfare & Social Education Department, Govt. of Tripura.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-
The age of the applicant should be 10 years and above.
If the family has children in the age group of 6 to 14 years, those children must be enrolled in a school recognized by the Government of Tripura. 
The disability of the applicant should be one of the following:
Blindness, Low-Vision, Leprosy-cured persons, Hearing Impairment (deaf & Hard of hearing), Locomotor Disability, Dwarfism, Intellectual Disability, Mental Illness, Autism Spectrum Disorder, Cerebral Palsy, Muscular Dystrophy, Chronic Neurological Condition, Specific Learning Disabilities, Multiple Sclerosis, Speech and Language disability, Thalassemia, Hemophilia, Sickle Cell Disease, Multiple Disabilities including deaf-blindness, Acid attack Victim, Parkinson's Disease.

NOTE: The assistance under this scheme will be stopped immediately in the following cases:
Death of Beneficiary.
Fulfillment of any exclusion criteria during the lifetime of a beneficiary, such as
Remarriage of a widow.
A member of the family of the beneficiary getting a Government Job.
The annual family income of the beneficiary exceeds ₹1,00,000/-, etc.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should visit the Office of the Child Development Project Officer, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form free of cost. 
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the CDPO Office under which the project his/her residence is located. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Income Certificate from the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM).
Age proof certificate (Birth Certificate / School Certificate / Madhyamik Admit)
Ration Card, issued by the Food & Civil Supplies Department.
Aadhaar Card.
Permanent Resident of Tripura Certificate (PRTC issued by the Sub Divisional Administration).
UDID (Unique Disability Identity Card)/ Registration Number/Slip.
'Non-Government Employee Certificate' from Panchayat Secretary/Ward Secretary/Gazetted Officer.
After Selection:
Life Certificate & Income Certificate, are to be submitted to the CDPO during November each year.
