State Horticulture Scholarship
Nagaland
BScHorticultureMScPhDScholarshipStipendStudent
Details
The “State Horticulture Scholarship” is a scholarship scheme, launched by the Department of Horticulture, Government of Nagaland to provide scholarship/stipends to students who are pursuing B.Sc. (Horticulture) M.Sc. (Horticulture) Ph.D. (Horticulture) courses. The department introduced the scheme to ensure that students pursuing Horticulture degrees should have the right to quality education and support their education in order to help achieve their maximum potential.

Benefits
Under the scheme, scholarships/Stipends will be given to students according to the course/programme in which they are enrolled.
Time frame: Applicant shall be awarded the stipend for a fixed number of years as follows:
B.Sc. (Horticulture): 4 Years
M.Sc. (Horticulture): 2 Years
Ph.D. (Horticulture): 3 Years
Eligibility
Applicant should be an indigenous inhabitant of Nagaland.
The students who are pursuing B.Sc. Hons. (Horticulture), M.Sc. Horticulture and Ph. D. Horticulture are eligible to apply.
The institution in which the applicant is currently studying must be recognized by UGC.
Applicant should not be receiving any form of financial assistance in the form of a Scholarship/Stipend from any other sources.
Application Process
Online
Online - Via CSCs
All eligible students shall apply through the Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in
Step 01: Registration
To register, visit the official Common Scholarship Portal of Nagaland: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in 
Create an Account: If the applicant is a new user, click on the "Register" option. Provide your MOBILE Number linked with AADHAAR to get an OTP and verify the mobile. Once Mobile is verified, provide essential details such as your name, email address and create a unique password. Click on the "Register" button to proceed.
Step 02: Login
Login to Your Account: Once your mobile number is verified, log in to your scholarship account using the credentials the applicant created during registration.
Step 03: Fill in the User Profile
Personal Details: Update your personal information, including name, date of birth, gender, category, Bank Account Details, etc.
Step 04: Apply for Scholarship
Select your Scholarship Scheme, Institution, Institution State, Institution, District and proceed.
Academic Information: Provide details about your educational background, such as school/college name, course, year of study, etc.
Step 05: Upload Documents
Upload Required Documents: Depending on the scholarship applicants are applying for, applicants will need to upload supporting documents. Commonly required documents include:
Step 06: Verify and Submit
Review Your Application: Carefully review all the information applicants have entered and the documents applicants have uploaded. Make sure everything is accurate and complete.
Submit Application: Once applicants are satisfied with your application, click on the "Submit" button.
Step 07: Track Your Application
Application Tracking: After submitting your application, applicants can track its status on the portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/
Log in to your account and check for updates on your application's status regularly.
Note: Applications with incomplete/unclear documents will be summarily rejected.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Aadhaar Card
Institution Verification Form 
A copy of Aadhaar Card
First page of Bank passbook or statement clearly indicating Account Number and Account Holders Name
Indigenous Certificate
Educational Qualification Certificates
Caste/community Certificate, if applicable
Disability certificate, if applicable
Any other documents as required
