60% and above Disability Allowances
Tripura
AllowanceDisabilityPensionPwDSocial Welfare
Details
"60% and Disability Allowance" is a pension scheme by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance in the form of a monthly pension of ₹2,000/- to differently-abled persons with a disability of 60% and above. The applicant should be submitted in person to the Child Development Project Officer.

Benefits
Pension of ₹2,000/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability.
The percentage of disability should be 60% and above.
The applicant's age should be 10 years and above.
The family income of the applicant should be ₹1,00,000/- per annum.
None of the family members of the applicant should be a government employee.
Application Process
Offline
The applications would be invited from the eligible candidates by giving wide publicity through print media and electronic media.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office of the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) of the concerned area 
and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the CDPO.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Income Certificate, issued by the local DCM/SDM (not applicable for BPL Family).
Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Ration Card.
Address Proof.
Age Proof.
Voter ID.
Permanent Resident of Tripura Certificate (PRTC).
Medical Certificate
