Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa - Old and Infirm
Tripura
Financial AssistancePensionSenior Citizen
Details
The scheme “Mukhyamantri Samajik Sahayata Prakalpa- Old and Infirm" was launched by the Directorate of Social Welfare and Social Education, Government of Tripura. This scheme aims to provide financial assistance to poor people of Tripura who are old and infirm, such as senior citizens who are 60 years and above in age.

Benefits
The pension amount of ₹2000/- per month will be transferred directly to the bank account of the applicant.
NOTE: The list of beneficiaries will be made available on the official website of the Social Welfare & Social Education Department, Govt. of Tripura.
Eligibility
For Old Applicants
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-
The age of the applicant should be 60 years or above.
 If the family has children in the age group of 6 to 14 years, those children must be enrolled in a school recognized by the Government of Tripura.
For Infirm Applicants
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-
The applicant should be affected by Cancer/ AIDS/ Leprosy.
If the family has children in the age group of 6 to 14 years, those children must be enrolled in a school recognized by the Government of Tripura.
NOTE: The assistance under this scheme will be stopped immediately in the following cases:
1.   Death of Beneficiary.
2.   Fulfillment of any exclusion criteria during the lifetime of a beneficiary:
Remarriage of a widow.
A member of the family of the beneficiary getting a Government Job.
The annual family income of the beneficiary exceeds ₹1,00,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should visit the Office of the Child Development Project Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form free of cost. 
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the CDPO Office under which the project his/her residence is located. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
During Application:
Income Certificate from SDM (Sub Divisional Magistrate).
Age Proof Certificate (Birth Certificate/ School Certificate/ Madhyamik Admit).
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card, issued by the Food & Civil Supplies Department.
Permanent Resident of Tripura Certificate (PRTC), issued by the Sub Divisional Administration.
Non-Government Employee Certificate from Panchayat Secretary/Ward Secretary/Gazetted Officer.
After Selection:
Life Certificate & Income Certificate are to be submitted to the CDPO in November every year.
