National Award For Senior Citizens (vayoshreshtha Samman): Best Institution For Research In The Field Of Ageing
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
AwardInstitutionResearchSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
Every year, the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India confers the "National Award for Senior Citizens (Vayoshreshtha Samman)" to the eminent and outstanding senior citizens and institutions/organizations involved in rendering distinguished service for the cause of elderly persons, especially indigent senior citizens. The awards are conferred on 1st October every year by the Hon’ble President of India at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. The "Vayoshreshtha Samman: Best Institution for Research in the Field of Ageing" award shall be given to institutions with a record of outstanding work in research and dissemination of knowledge in the field of ageing. A total of 11 awards are given along with a Certificate, a Memento and also Cash Award. The total number of Awardees is 15 (Fifteen). The Awards are given across 13 categories:

INSTITUTIONAL CATEGORY
Best Institution for Research in the field of Ageing
Best Institution for providing services to Senior Citizens and Awareness Generation
Best District Panchayat in providing services and facilities to Senior Citizens
Best Urban Local Body in providing services and facilities to Senior Citizens
Best State in implementing the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, and providing services and facilities to Senior Citizens
Best Private Sector Organisation in promoting the well-being and welfare of Senior Citizens
Best Public Sector Organisation in promoting the well-being and welfare of Senior Citizens

 INDIVIDUAL CATEGORY
Centenarian
Iconic Mother
Lifetime Achievement
Creative Art
Sports and Adventure (one each for Male and Female)
Courage & Bravery (one each for Male and Female)

Benefits
Decoration
The Awardee is given a Citation, Memento, and a Cash award of ₹ 5,00,000/-.

Presentation of Award (Ceremony Details)
The Award shall be presented in New Delhi at a special ceremony/function to be held on the occasion of the International Day of Older Persons on the 1st of October every year.
The Awards shall be presented by the President of India or the Prime Minister of India.
The boarding and lodging expenses of the awardees including one companion for each awardee shall be borne by the Central Government.
The to-and-fro travelling expenses and accommodation for up to one day prior to and after the date of the Samman ceremony (depending upon the actual arrival and departure dates) shall be arranged and the expenditure shall be reimbursed by the Central Government.
The TA/ DA admissibility of the awardees and one companion shall be equivalent to that of the Joint Secretary to the Government of India.
Eligibility
For the Nominee
A.  The award shall be given to the institutions which are generating and spreading knowledge In the field of ageing.
B.  To claim the award the following requirements shall be fulfilled, namely:
The Institution or Organisation should be a registered body and should have a minimum of five years of experience in the field of ageing and related issues.
The institution should have remarkable achievements in research or publication and spread of knowledge in the field of elderly in India.
Outstanding achievements in the area of education training etc. in the field of Ageing or Geriatric care.
The Institution should have been instrumental in developing and formulating Policies and programmes for Senior Citizens either at the State or National level.
Dissemination of knowledge and creating awareness on the issues relating to the elderly through conferences, seminars, workshops and other means.
Participatory leadership in the community and civil society at large in the field of ageing is a prime concern.

For the Nominating Agencies/individuals
The Ministries or Departments of the Government of India and their autonomous organizations.
The State Governments or Union Territory Administrations.
Past recipients of Padma Awards, VayoshresthaSamman and other National Awards in both individual and institutional categories.
Members of the National Council of Senior Citizens (NCSrC).
Renowned Apex Chambers like the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ASSOCHAM), National Association of Software and Service Companies, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry etc.
Any other category of persons or institutions authorized by the Ministry from time to time.
 
NOTE 1: The awards are open to all Indian Institutions, Organizations and Individuals without any distinction or discrimination on grounds of religion, race, sex, caste or creed.
NOTE 2: It would be necessary that the nominee is recommended in writing by someone authorized to recommend the nominations.
NOTE 3: The Self-nominations for the Awards shall not be considered.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step 1: The agencies or persons, authorized to nominate and recommend eligible institutions or individuals, should visit the National Awards Portal. On the top right of the homepage, click "Register".
Step 2: You will be directed to the Registration Page. Fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a Red Asterisk). 
Step 3: Check the "Declaration" checkboxes provided at the bottom of the page. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Submit".You will receive the Login Credentials on your Registered Mobile Number.

Application
Step 1: Visit the National Awards Portal. On the top right of the homepage, click "Login".
Step 2: Login using credentials. From the list of awards, select "Vayoshreshtha Samman - National Awards for Senior Citizens", then click "Nominate / Apply Now".
Step 3: On the next page, fill in all the mandatory fields in the online application form, and then click "Submit".

Selection of Awardees
1.  A Screening Committee shall be constituted in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to scrutinize and shortlist the nominations, under Additional Secretary/ Joint Secretary.
2.  The final Selection of the Awardees shall be made by the Selection Committee chaired by the Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment.

Calendar of Activities
Issue of Letter Inviting Nominations by the Ministry: 1st November
Last Date of Receipt of Nominations: 31st January
Shortlisting of Nominations by the Screening Committee: 28th February
Final selection by the Jury: 30th April
Approval by the Minister: 31st May
Vetting by IB: 15th August
Announcement of the Awards: 1st September
Presentation of the Awards: 1st October
Documents Required
Certificate of Registration
Proof of Address (for communication)
Proof of Area of specialization (Memorandum and Articles of Association containing objects and bye-laws)
Proof of Parent Organisation or Registered Body (Certified Copy of the Certificate of Registration)
Details of the Managing Committee and Qualification of their Members
Details of NGO working at Regional/State/National/International Level..
Total staff strength of the NGO.
Annual Reports for the last 3 years.
Special or Outstanding Achievements during the last 5 years in the field of the Category of the Award.
Details of Awards or Honours received, if any (attach citations), along with Justification for the Award.
Justification for the award.
