The Andaman & Nicobar Islands Disability Allowance Scheme
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
AllowanceDisabilityFinancial AssistancePersons With DisabilityPwDUnemployed
Details
The scheme “The Andaman & Nicobar Islands Disability Allowance Scheme” is implemented by the Directorate of Social Welfare, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands to provide financial assistance to the differently able unemployed persons with 40% disability or more in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

Benefits
The quantum of Disability Allowance shall be ₹2500/- per month subject to eligibility.
The financial assistance sanction shall be payable to a disabled person till his/her death subject to the conditions.
Disability allowance shall become payable from the month following the one in which it is sanctioned. 
Note: Assistance shall be stopped on the death of the disabled person, if the disabled person dies, before receiving assistance for a particular period, the same shall lapse.
Mode of Payment:
Payment of allowance shall be made through Bank Account on a monthly basis.
Eligibility
Persons who are permanent residents of the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands or have resided in the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for more than 10 years at the time of making the application. 
A person of age 01 month or more and having 40% & above disability is eligible under the scheme.
There is no income ceiling to avail this allowance.
The applicant is neither in receipt of any other financial assistance/allowances nor employed anywhere.
Cancellation of Assistance:
The sanctioning authority i.e. Director (Social Welfare) shall have the right cancel to the sanction of assistance at any stage if it is found that it was sanctioned on a mistaken ground or false information tendered or the conditions under which the assistance was granted no longer exist.
The assistance shall be stopped if the beneficiary gets employment.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The application form shall be available free of cost at the Directorate of Social Welfare, Port Blair, and the sub-divisional offices of CDPOs. The application form can also be downloaded from the official website. 
Step 02: Application for "Financial Assistance" shall be submitted in the prescribed format in the offices of the concerned Child Development Project Officers located at Port Blair, Ferrargunj, Rangat, Diglipur, and Car Nicobar.
Verification:
The Application for sanction of allowance under the scheme shall be verified by the Mukhya Sevikas with a counter signature or the CDPO concerned and forwarded to the Director (Social Welfare) for sanction.
Change of Address/Employment Status:
It shall be obligatory for the person receiving assistance to inform about the change of address/employment status, if any, to the Director of Social Welfare within days of such change.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Disability certificate
Proof of Residence i.e. Local Certificate or Islander Identity Card issued by the competent Authority shall be considered. In the absence of the above two, a certificate issued by the Tehsildar of the respective Tehsils stating their stay in the A & N Islands for a minimum period of 10 years shall suffice.
Caste/community certificate, if applicable
Bank account details/Copy of passbook
Affidavit 
Certificate to be furnished by State Institute of Education (Mandatory only in case of Persons with disabilities whose age is less than 18 years)
Any other document as required
Note: Disability certificate shall be renewed every five years.
