Differently Abled Pension Scheme
Tamil Nadu
ClothesDifferently-abledFinancial AssistanceMealPensionRation
Details
The 'Differently Abled Pension Scheme' is a state scheme launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide a pension of ₹1,000/- to differently-abled persons with disability 40% and above. One free saree to females and one free dhoti to males is given on Pongal and Diwali. A nutritious meal is provided to the beneficiaries through the Anganwadi Centres. 

Benefits
Pension: 
₹1,000/- per month.
Free Clothes during Pongal and Deepavali:
One free dhoti to a male pensioner.
One free saree to a female pensioner.
Free Rice in Anganwadi Centres:
2kg/month to those who are taking nutritious meal.
4kg/month to those who are not taking nutritious meal.
Eligibility
The applicant should be 18 years or above in age.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
The applicant should not be employed in government or government-affiliated organizations.
If the applicant is employed permanently in the private sector institutions and drawing monthly salaries, OR if the applicant is self-employed, his/her income should not exceed ₹ 3,00,000/- per annum.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Applicant's Photo.
Aadhaar Card.
Proof of Age.
Aadhaar Consent Form.
Smart Ration Card or Any Address Proof.
Self–declaration of Applicant.
Any Identity Proof (Voter ID Card, Passport, PAN Card, Driving License (Optional)).
Bank Passbook.
Differently Abled ID card.
