"Advance/High Skill Training in Coir" Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme
Puducherry
AccomodationAllowanceCoirSkillTraineeTraining
Details
The "Advance/High Skill Training in Coir" Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to enhance the skills of Coir artisans and interested individuals. The objective is to acquire the latest skills and modern technologies through advanced/high-skilled training available across various locations in India, offering valuable benefits to eligible candidates.

Benefits
Trainees receive a stipend of ₹2,500 per month.
Accommodation charges for trainees are ₹500 per month.
Travelling allowance covers to-and-fro 2nd class sleeper train fare.
Full course fees are paid to the training units/institutions as prescribed.
Eligibility
The applicant must either be a native of Puducherry or have been a continuous resident for the past 3 years.
The age limit for applicants is between 18 to 35 years.
Educational qualifications should meet the standards specified by the Training Units/Institutions.
Candidates who have already undergone this training are not eligible to apply.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries) of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Birth Certificate/Education Certificate/Residence Certificate.
Age Proof.
Educational Qualification Certificates.
