Destitute/Deserted Wives Pension Scheme
Tamil Nadu
DesertedDestituteDivorced WomanFinancial AssistancePension
Details
The 'Destitute/Deserted Wives Pension Scheme' is a state scheme was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Tamil Nadu. The objective is to provide financial assistance of ₹1,000/- to the destitute/deserted wives. The scheme provides other benefits every year during the Pongal and Deepavali festival one priceless saree is given and a nutritious meal is supplied through the Anganwadi Centres. 

Benefits
Pension: 
₹1,000/- per month.
Free Clothes during Pongal and Deepavali:
One free saree.
Free Rice in Anganwadi Centres:
2kg/month to those who are taking nutritious meals.
4kg/month to those who are not taking nutritious meals.
Eligibility
The applicant should be legally divorced or deserted for a minimum of 5 years.
The applicant should be a destitute woman.
The applicant's age should be 30 years and above.
The applicant's fixed assets not exceeding ₹1,00,000/-
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Applicant's Photo
Aadhaar Card
Proof of Age.
Aadhaar Consent Form
Smart Ration Card or Any Address Proof
Legal Separation Certificate (Issued by Court of law)
Self–declaration of Applicant
Any Identity Proof (Voter ID Card, Passport, PAN Card, Driving License)
Bank Passbook
Not remarried certificate 
Abandonment Certificate
