"Capital Investment Subsidy: SC/ST/Women Entrepreneurs" Component of the "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries" Scheme
Puducherry
EntrepreneurInvestmentMachinerySubsidy
Details
The "Capital Investment Subsidy: SC/ST/Women Entrepreneurs" is a Component of the "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries" Scheme by the Department of Industrial Development (Industries and Commerce), Union Territory of Puducherry. The department extends subsidies for the investments made on land, buildings, plants & machinery @ 25% by the Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe/ Women Entrepreneurs. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department.

Benefits
For Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe/ Women Entrepreneurs
Subsidy for the investments made on land, building, plant & machinery @ 25% thereof subject to a maximum of ₹25,00,000/-.
For Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Entrepreneurs
Subsidy at the rate of 25% on the land, building and plant & machinery subject to a cumulative maximum of ₹50,00,000/-.

Number of Installments
The subsidy shall be disbursed in a single instalment.
NOTE: Where due to paucity of funds in a particular financial year or for such other reasons as the case may be, single instalment disbursement is not possible, such disbursement will be made in instalments. 

Mode of Disbursement 
In the case of Units Financed by Financial Institutions/Banks, the subsidy amount shall be disbursed through the financial institutions/banks only, towards the adjustment against the loan availed by the entrepreneurs or for the creation of additional fixed assets or working capital purposes.
In the case of Self-financed Units, the subsidy shall be disbursed directly to the entrepreneurs.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe/ Woman Entrepreneur.
In the case of indigenous second-hand machinery, the initial purchase value with depreciation, or the second-hand purchase value, or value assessed by the Chartered Engineer, whichever is less, will be taken as an investment.
If two or more industrial undertakings are set up by the same person as proprietor, common partners, or common board of directors/shareholders, such units are eligible for subsidy as separate entities provided the location, products and licences/clearances/registrations are obtained separately.
For Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe/ Women Entrepreneurs
The subsidy for the investments made on land, building, plant & machinery will be applicable for the small and micro manufacturing enterprises which started production on or after 27-3-2002. 
For Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Entrepreneurs
The subsidy to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Entrepreneurs on the land, building and plant & machinery will be applicable on the investment made on or after 24-8-2011. The unit should commence production/complete expansion as the case may be on or after 24-8-2011.
Second-hand machinery shall be eligible provided it is imported by the unit directly or through an agent, and the claim is supported with required import documents.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The industrial unit should register the claim for the grant of incentive/subsidy in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
*The State Level Committee will go into the merits of each case to decide whether the unit qualifies for the grant of incentive/subsidy.

Application Deadline
For New Units
Within one year from the date of commencement of obtaining the Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2/ Permanent Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
For Existing Units
Within one year of completion of Expansion/ Diversification/ Modernization.
Documents Required
General Documents
Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2 (UAM/ PMT) Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
Caste certificate from the competent authority in the case of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) Entrepreneurs.
Loan Sanction Letter.
Scheme-Specific Documents
Registered Land Document.
Plan Approval from the Pollution Control Board (PPA).
Engineer’s Certificate for Building Valuation Assessed by Public Works Department (PWD)/Pondicherry Industrial Promotion Development and Investment Corporation (PIPDIC).
Registered Lease Agreement for the Building Executed Between the Developer and the Unit.
Purchase Invoices for Plant & Machinery/ Pollution Equipment/ Generator.
Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Investment in Fixed Assets / Pollution Control Equipment / Generator.
Certificate for the Installation of Pollution Control Equipment Obtained from the Directorate of Sustainable Technologies and Environmental (DSTE).
Air/Water Consent Orders Obtained from DSTE.
Notary Affidavit.
Case-Specific Documents
In the case of Second Hand Machinery, an affidavit stating that the subsidy has not been availed of from the Central Government or any State or Union Territories.
