Sastraposhini Scheme
Kerala
GrantLaboratorySchoolTeacherTraining
Details
Sastraposhini is a programme envisaged by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) for strengthening science education in schools of Kerala. Under the programme, model science laboratories are established in selected Government high schools of the State to provide a better learning environment. The programme was launched by KSCSTE in association with the Department of Education, Government of Kerala in the year 2003. So far, KSCSTE has successfully established more than 200 science laboratories throughout Kerala. Presently, KSCSTE has decided to implement the scheme only in government high schools of Kerala.
The objectives of the Programme are:
To stimulate interest in science at the school level by the performance of experiments in Physics, Chemistry and Biology by students.
To provide hands-on experiments to students for observation, inference, interaction and self-designing of experiments.
To organize training programmes for the teachers to demonstrate scientific experiments.
To evolve a low-cost laboratory kit based on readily available material for the performing of a range of experiments.

Benefits
A total of ₹8 lakhs is spent to establish Sastraposhini laboratories (Physics, Chemistry, and Biology) in one school with a fair share from KSCSTE.
Training will be provided to selected teachers from Sastraposhini schools by eminent scholars/ academicians from different disciplines.
Laboratory manuals and visual experimental aids and models will be provided to the selected schools.
Training programme for teachers:
Two teachers each in Physics, Chemistry, and Biology from Sastraposhini schools are invited to participate in a training programme. The trained teachers will be in charge of each laboratory.
Scientists/academicians offer classes on creating science awareness, good laboratory practices, setting up of laboratories, and practical demonstrations. Based on the training received, the teachers will be encouraged to carry out innovative projects in science for children utilizing the facilities of Sastraposhini laboratories.
Eligibility
Only government high schools in the State with sufficient facilities (three rooms to establish Physics, Chemistry, and Biology laboratories), and qualified faculty in science are eligible.
The schools applying for the scheme shall have the following basic requirements:
Sufficient space to establish Sastraposhini laboratories (separate rooms for physics, chemistry, and biology laboratories).
Qualified teachers in three subject areas (physics, chemistry, and biology).
Sufficient number of students in the high school section.
Extend of administrative support from the Headmaster/Principal/Management for the smooth implementation of the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The proposals in the prescribed format are generally invited in the month of July every year through advertisement on the KSCSTE website and dailies.
Step 02: The Principal/HM of the school shall apply for the scheme in the prescribed format given on the KSCSTE website and forward it through the Head of the Institution for required financial support.
Step 03: The application in the prescribed format should be submitted to: Director, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment, Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom P.O, Thiruvananthapuram - 695004.
Post-application Process:
Step 01: The Apex Resource Group (ARG - Consists of subject experts/academicians/ nominees from DPI) of the Sastraposhini scheme / an Expert Committee constituted by KSCSTE will inspect the schools applied for the scheme and based on the report of the committee, KSCSTE will decide on implementing the scheme in the respective schools.
Step 02: As the initial step, KSCSTE will issue a sanction letter for the implementation of the Sastraposhini Scheme and the HM/Principal of the selected school shall submit an undertaking to KSCSTE in ₹200 stamp paper within two weeks from the date of sanction.
Step 03: As the next step, KSCSTE will release a refurbishing grant of ₹2,00,000/- to the HM/ Principal of the selected school to establish the basic infrastructural facilities like flooring, painting, wiring, plumbing, tables and racks in the designated rooms.
Step 04: KSCSTE finalizes the list of equipment, consumables, perishables, and miscellaneous items (more than 500 items) required for the laboratories with the recommendation by the Apex Resource Group based on the present school curriculum. The supply of laboratory items directly to the schools will be done by the agencies selected by KSCSTE through an open tender process as per government rules.
Step 05: KSCSTE will release the amount required for the purchase of laboratory items to the respective schools.
Step 06: The HM/Principal shall intimate KSCSTE regarding the completion of the refurbishing activities, after which KSCSTE will entrust the selected firms to supply the laboratory items to the schools. The school authorities shall verify the quantity and other specifications of the delivered laboratory items as stipulated by the Council. Based on the satisfactory report of the HM/Principal, the Council recommends the release of the payments due to the concerned firms.
Step 07: The project has to be completed within one year from the date of sanction. Any delay in the completion of the project shall be intimated to the Council at the earliest.
Step 08: In connection with the inauguration of the Sastraposhini laboratories, a public function should be conducted in consultation with the KSCSTE.
Contact Details:
Scientist-in-charge (Sastraposhini Scheme), Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment,
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram - 4
Tel No. 0471-2548250, E-mail: esanil.kscste@kerala.gov.in, sasthrabodhini2011@gmail.com
Documents Required
1. Details of school
2. Name and details of the teacher to be nominated as in charge of the laboratory
3. Remarkable achievements of the school, if any
4. Details of the nearest Sastraposhini School
5. Official bank account details of the school
6. Declaration by the head of the institution
7. Undertaking
