Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme-I
Tamil Nadu
Backward ClassCommunityFinancial AssistanceInter-casteMarriageScheduled CasteScheduled Tribes
Details
The 'Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme' was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme's objective is to abolish caste and community discrimination by encouraging inter-caste marriage by giving financial assistance to newly married couples of whom one spouse should be from a Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe and the other from a different Community.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹25,000/-. 
1 Sovereign (8gm) 22-carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam.

Mode of disbursal:
₹15,000 through Electronic Clearing Service and ₹10,000 in the form of National Savings Certificate.
Eligibility
The bride should have passed the 10th standard (5th standard in case the applicant is from a Scheduled Tribe).
The age of the bride should be above 18 years at the time of marriage.
One spouse should be from a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe and the other should be from a different Community.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Application Deadline:
The application should be submitted within two years from the date of marriage.
Documents Required
Marriage Invitation/ Marriage Registration Certificate.
Community Certificate of the bride.
Community Certificate of the bridegroom.
Age Certificate of the bride.
