Kushal Shramik Sahay Yojana (GBOCWWB)
Gujarat
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourSkill Education
Details
The “Kushal Shramik Sahay Yojana” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development & Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, assistance shall be provided to registered construction workers and their children for career development. By advancing in skill education, the children of construction workers can also progress and avail employment opportunities.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the full course fee will be reimbursed.
If the course will be of less than 1 year duration, all fees of the course will be reimbursed.
If the course is for more than one year all fees will be reimbursed annually. 
Eligibility
The construction workers who are registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board and any two of their children will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
This assistance will be admissible only in relation to the son/daughter of a construction worker who has been taken admission in various courses of study run by the Skill University or an institution affiliated with it.
The age limit for children of construction workers to get assistance should be a maximum of 30 years. If the son or daughter is handicapped then there will be no age limit.
Note: Assistance will be limited to the first Trial in the academic year. A person who fails in the same standard/class will not be eligible for second aid for the same standard/class.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the nearest District Office of the Construction Board.
Step 02: Collect the application form and fill in all the details as required.
Step 03: Attach all the required documents and submit it to the concerned official in the District Office of the Construction Board.
Note 01: Registered construction worker has to apply in the prescribed format and within the prescribed time limit.
Note 02: The application must be received and submitted within a time limit of 3 (Three) months from the date of commencement of the academic session.
Note 03: If two children are supported by the same beneficiary, separate forms have to be filled out for both children. (Online/Offline)
Note 04: The applicant must fill all the details in the application form completely and accurately otherwise the application of the applicant will not be considered valid.
Post Application Process:
Step 01: The District Project Manager will submit the physical form online.
Step 02: It would be then approved by District Nirikshak.
Step 03: Then, it would be submitted to the State Project Manager.
Step 04: It would be then be approved by the Head office Government Labour Officer and then the Member Secretary subsequently.
Step 05: After approval of the application, a payment order would be made by the Account Officer and assistance would be given through DBT in the worker account.
Documents Required
Original Bonafide Certificate of the Beneficiary's ongoing course from School/College/Institute
Passport-size photographs of beneficiary and child
Copy of child's Aadhaar card
Copy of the child's last year's result
Fee payment receipt
Gazette/Affidavit from Beneficiary if Surname and Name are different
Detail of the first page of the bank passbook
Affidavit (for the assistance of ₹5,000/ or more) or letter of consent (as per Govt. notification)
Any other documents as required
