Government Service Home - Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu
DesertedDestituteEducationFoodGirlHomeWomen
Details
The scheme "Government Service Home" was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This scheme aims to provide institutional care to widows, destitute women, deserted women, adolescent girls and differently-abled women and their children who are economically and socially backward by giving them protection, education and vocational training.

Benefits
The beneficiary is provided accommodation, Food, Education, Vocational training, Free supply of textbooks, notebooks, uniforms, chappals, and sanitary napkins.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a female.
The applicant's annual income should not exceed ₹ 72,000/- (not applicable for differently abled).
The age of the applicant should be between 14 to 45 years. 
The applicant should qualify as one of the following:
Widow.
Destitute Woman.
Deserted Woman.
Adolescent Girl.
Differently Abled Woman.
Woman from Socially and Economically Backward Sections. 

NOTE: The women can stay with their male child up to 5th standard and girl child up to 12th standard in the Service Home.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents (self-attest if required) needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Age Certificate.
Widow/Destitute/Deserted/Orphan Certificate.
Income Certificate of the Applicant/Parent/Guardian.
Certificate/Proof of Disability, in case of differently abled.
Death Certificate of the Husband, in case of widows.
Certificate showing Class Last Studied, if available.
