Laadli Laxmi Scheme
Goa
Financial AssistanceGirlMarriageSocial Welfare
Details
Laadli Laxmi Scheme was launched on 6th July 2012 as one of the flagship programmes of the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Goa with the intention to address the undesirable tendency of female foeticides and with an aim towards erasing the general perception that the birth of a girl in the family is the burden on her parents/guardian during her marriage. The objective of the scheme is to financially empower the girl child to meet educational and other expenses on becoming a major of age and to improve the female sex ratio in the State.

Benefits
For Unmarried Beneficiaries (beneficiaries who attain the age of majority i.e. 18 years on or after 01-04-2012)
Financial Assistance of ₹ 1,00,000, by means of a bank fixed deposit, jointly in the name of the Director (DoWCD) and the applicant.
The fixed deposit shall be renewed annually automatically on maturity, along with the amount of interest accrued, till the date of claim by the applicant as per the scheme or until the age of 45 years whichever is earlier.

For Married Beneficiaries ( beneficiaries who have already attained the age of 18 years before 01-04-2012 and are in the age group of 19 to 45 years prospectively from 1st April, 2016)
Financial Assistance of ₹ 1,00,000., by means of cash payment.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Girl.
The applicant should be born in the State of Goa OR should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
In case, the applicant is a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years, she should have been educated in Goa for a minimum period of 7 years (continuous).
The parental income of the applicant does not exceed ₹ 3,00,000 per annum.
The applicant should qualify for ANY ONE of the following three criteria:
             a)   At least one of the parents of the applicant is born in Goa and is also a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
             b)   One of the parents of the applicant is residing in Goa for the last twenty-five years.

NOTE: In case the applicant is an affected person of Tillari Irrigation Project (a joint venture of the Government of Goa and the government of Maharashtra) and was rehabilitated in the State of Goa, her application shall be sanctioned if she produces a certificate issued by the Collector, North Goa District relaxing the condition of 10/15 years domicile in the State of Goa for various purposes for her family.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2:The applicant should send the application to:
Director, Directorate of Women And Child Development, Panaji-Goa, 2nd floor, Old Education Building, 18th June Road, Altinho, Panaji, Goa - 403 001.

NOTE: The application shall be submitted within one year, from the date of attaining the age of 18 years or from the date of Civil Marriage Registration. All applications received beyond the specified period of one year shall be rejected.
Documents Required
1.    Birth Certificate (Self-Attested)
2.    Any document as proof (Self-Attested) of 15 years of residence of the applicant in the State of Goa.
NOTE: In lieu of the Residence Certificate, the previous School Leaving Certificate and the current Bonafide Student Certificate issued by the recognized Educational Institution in which the girl is presently studying can also be produced. However, in the case of girls who discontinued education at the school level, the gap period i.e., from the time of discontinuation of education till completion of 18 years of age/marriage as the case may be, may be proved by the production of residence certificate. In the case of graduates, the Certificates of passing of Xth, XIIth and Graduation are adequate evidence.
3.    Residence Certificate of the Parent(s) (15 years or 25 years) as the case may be. 
NOTE: In lieu of the Residence Certificate, any documentary evidence to prove the residence for the specified period can also be produced which may include the:
                   (a) The land records i.e. tenancy rights, mundcarial rights, occupancy rights, etc;
                   (b) Employment certificate; or
                   (c) Any such records to the satisfaction of the Committee.
                   (d) In case of a girl whose father/mother is in service either with the State Government or the Central Government or the public sector undertakings, in lieu of the certificate of residence such applicant may produce the service certificate of 25 years issued by the Head of the Department. However, the girl should be born in Goa and should have studied in Goa up to class 10th.
4.    Birth Certificate of the parent(s). 
NOTE: If no birth certificate is available one of the following documents can be produced showing the details namely the date and place of Birth of the parent(s):
                   (a) Baptism certificate;
                   (b) School leaving certificate of the parent(s) etc;
                   (c) Any document which establishes that one of the grandparents of the girl has lived in Goa around the time of the date of birth claimed by the parent(s);
                   (d) Any such records, which establish the date of birth of the parent(s).
5.    Aadhaar card (for the applicants after 01-04-2013). However, the Government by separate Order may relax the requirement of producing the Aadhaar card and such other certificate(s), for a further period of time, as may be prescribed in the said Order.
6.    A Self-Declaration in the format as given in “Annexure II” to this scheme.
7.    Annual Income Certificate of parents of the immediate previous financial year at the time of submission of application, issued by the Competent Authority. The Income Certificate shall include the annual income of the mother and father of the applicant taken together and not the income of the family.

NOTE: If the applicant fulfils all the criteria and has submitted all her documents required as per the scheme but is unable to furnish her parent's documents due to the death of both parents, such an application shall be sanctioned if the applicant submits her 15 years of residence certificate and birth certificate along with death certificates of both parents. Submission of parental income certificate in case of such applicants shall be waived off.

Additional Documents
In case of those beneficiaries who have already attained the age of 18 and above before 01-04-2012 and have got/are getting married hereinafter, may apply along with the attested copy of the Civil Marriage Registration Certificate (which may also include the first registration certificate) provided the certificate is dated on or after 01-04-2012 only.
