National Handicrafts Development Programme: Direct Benefit to Artisans - Supports to Artisans in Indigent Circumstances
Ministry Of Textiles
ArtisanFinancial AssistanceHandicraftPensionSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme "Direct Benefit to Artisans - Supports to Artisans in Indigent Circumstances" is a component of the Umbrella Scheme "National Handicrafts Development Programme (NHDP)" by the Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India. The scheme is introduced to support the artisans during their old age. The scheme is designed to give a boost to the handicraft sector in India. Assistance of upto ₹8,000/- per month is granted to the Artisans in Indigent Circumstances in the form of monthly allowance or lump sum grant or both, through PFMS/DBT.

Benefits
Assistance of upto ₹8,000/- per month is granted in the form of a monthly allowance or lump sum grant or both, disbursed via the Public Financial Management System (PFMS)/ Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a master craftsperson who is the recipient of the Shilp Guru Award/ National Award/ Merit Certificate/ State Award/ any other bigger award.
The annual income of the artisan should not exceed ₹1,00,000/- in the preceding financial year.
The applicant should not be a recipient of similar financial assistance from any other source.
The artisan should not be less than 60 years of age on the date of application. Age may be relaxed in the case of artisans with disabilities, subject to submission of the Certificate issued by the appropriate authority.
Application Process
Offline
The applications from the eligible master craftsperson would be invited every year by making wide publicity through advertisement. 
Step 1: The eligible artisan should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Handicrafts Service Centre/Regional Office.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Post-Application Processes
Step 1: On receipts of applications inspections will be done by the field officer.
Step 2: The applications completed in all respects shall be processed within 30 days. On the recommendation of the Regional Director, the Core Committee under the Chairmanship of the Development Commissioner (Handicrafts) would finalize the selection of the master craftsperson for financial assistance. 
Step 3: The financial assistance will be disbursed through the in-charge in the respective field formation of the Office of the Development Commissioner (Handicrafts).
*If there is any gap in extending the financial support due to non-submission of income certificate/enhancement of income criteria, the applicant has to apply as a fresh application according to the financial support.
Documents Required
1. Photograph.
2. Self-Attested Copy of the Certificate of Handicrafts Award bestowed by the Central/State Government.
3. Income Certificate.
4. Document for Proof of Age.
5. Disability Certificate, in case of Physically Handicapped Artisan.
6. Affidavit Duly Attested by the First-Class Magistrate in the Prescribed Format.
*Upon selection, every financial year, the master craftsperson has to submit an income certificate and an affidavit in the prescribed format duly countersigned by the 1st Class Magistrate for seeking financial support. 
