Goa (Technical/ Vocational Training To Sex Workers And Sexually Abused Women) Scheme, 2013 (PRABHAT)
Goa
EducationProtectionReintegrationSex WorkerShelterSkillVocational Education
Details
The "Goa (Technical/ Vocational Training to Sex Workers and Sexually Abused Women) Scheme, 2013 (PRABHAT)" by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Goa, provides technical/vocational training for sex workers and sexually abused women to enable them to earn for their livelihood through such technical/vocational training and skill. The department will take the assistance of members of reputed NGOs/Trust/Society/professionals/expert bodies, who are involved in the rehabilitation of sex workers.

Benefits
(For availing of the benefit under this scheme the victim has to reside in Goa)

Financial Assistance
The beneficiary (excluding victims housed in Protective Home) will be provided with a stipend of ₹ 2,500/- per month for a period of three months or till she joins a livelihood programme, whichever is earlier.

Technical/Vocational Training
Based on their literacy, skills, interest, etc, the Mentor/Probation Officer will help the beneficiary to join a technical/vocational training programme of the Government or Non-Government institutes, emphasizing on the training programmes which has opportunities for jobs or setting up their own enterprise, such as, repair of the home appliances, mobile repair, beauty treatment, tailoring, bakery, catering, etc. The fees, travel and other miscellaneous expenses will be covered.

Education
The beneficiary, if she is interested in pursuing her education, will be supported for her education till 12th Standard. All the expenses related to her education, boarding, travel, fees, books, toiletries, etc., may be paid.

Shelter
If in need of shelter, she shall be admitted to a shelter home/protective home being managed by a non-Government organization or Government organization or organization receiving grants from the State/Central Government.

Psycho-Social Services
A victim of commercial sexual exploitation will be provided counselling by Probation Officer or by a person appointed as “Mentor” or by a professional counsellor or psychiatrist working in a Government or non-Government organization. Expenses incurred for fees, travel, medicine, etc., will be covered.

Health
The victim shall be provided health services for all kinds of ailments at the Government hospital. Victims suffering from HIV or Tuberculosis will be connected to ART and DOTS schemes. In cases where the victim is suffering from AIDS and requires institutional care, she shall be admitted to one of the care centres meant for people with HIV/AIDS, for a period of six months.

Children
The children of the trafficked victim shall be provided counselling and assistance for admission in the school by the Probation Officer or by a person appointed as a “Mentor”. All the expenses related to the education of the children, such as boarding, travel, fees, books, toiletries, etc., up to 12th Standard shall be covered.

Reintegration
The Probation Officer or “Mentor” shall help the victim in reintegrating with her family and community by providing counselling to the family members and if necessary to the members of the community.

Protection
The Probation Officer or “Mentor” shall take the assistance of the family members, community members, religious leader, local police and Integrated Anti-human Trafficking Unit of Goa police in ensuring that the victim is not harassed by the traffickers. The Probation Officer or Mentor may also make a written complaint to the Chairperson of the Goa State Commission for Women, for victims' protection and the Commission shall take necessary action to protect the victim.

Livelihood (a)
The Probation Officer or “Mentor” shall assist her in finding a job, based on her interests and skills. In case the victim is unable to get a job or is not interested in a job, then the Probation Officer or “Mentor” based on the interest, skill and viability of a business shall help her in setting up a business enterprise.

Livelihood (b)
Those victims who have successfully completed the vocational training may be provided all the support by the Probation Officer/Mentor for preparation of project reports, availing loan from financial institutions etc. The Department may provide such financial assistance to the victim for setting up business enterprises as may be decided by the Government from time to time.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the Women and Children who are victims of Commercial Sexual Exploitation.
The applicant should be either residing in Goa or be a native of Goa.
NOTE 1: The place of commercial sexual exploitation is not a criterion for eligibility (women and girls from Goa being commercially sexually exploited outside Goa also qualify).
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Probation Officer of the Dept. of Women & Child Development, and request a hard copy of the proforma of the application form for the scheme.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Probation Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgement of the successful submission of the application from the Probation Officer.

Check Application Status:
The Probation Officer can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity Proof.
Resident Certificate.
