Scheme of Financial Assistance to Indigent Artists
Tamil Nadu
ArtArtistFinancial AssistanceIndigent
Details
The "Scheme of Financial Assistance to Indigent Artists" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month to artists who are in indigent circumstances and their dependents. The Indigent artists who have rendered services in the field of Art and Culture during their lifetime ar eligible for this scheme.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹3,000/- per month. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artist.
The applicant should be in indigent circumstances.
The age of the applicant should be 58 years or above.
The applicant should have professionally served for the enrichment of one or more art disciplines such as music, dance, drama, film folk arts, etc.
The annual income of the applicant or their legal spouse should not exceed ₹12,000/-. 
Application Process
Offline
The advertisement is published in the newspapers, calling for applications by the Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub Collector and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub Collector.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Step 5: The Revenue Divisional Officer/ Sub Collector will send the duly filled-in application to the Regional Assistant Director of Art and Culture at Kanchipuram/ Thanjavur/ Madurai/ Tiruchirappalli/ Tirunelveli/ Salem.
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Artist Certificate.
Age Proof/Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Property Valuation Certificate (issued by Thasildar).
