Food Bill Assistance to SC Students
Gujarat
Financial AssistanceFood BillHostelSCStudent
Details
The “Food Bill Assistance to SC Students” scheme is administered by the Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to the Scheduled Caste (SC) students who are admitted in college affiliated hostels for food bill. The students will be eligible for food bill assistance up to 10 months in a year.

Benefits
The food bill assistance @ ₹1,500/- per month (Up to 10 Months) will be granted to the Scheduled Caste (SC) students admitted in college affiliated hostels.
Eligibility
1. The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste of Gujarat.
2. The students should reside in the hostel, affiliated to the college.
3. The annual family income of the student should be up to ₹6 lakhs.
Application Process
Online
Application Process for Scheme Benefit:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Digital Gujarat Portal: https://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and the applicant will be redirected to the registration form page.
Step 03: Enter your Mobile Number, Email, Set Password, and then click on ‘Save’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant can login through his/her User Name (Mobile No./Email ID) and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘My Profile’ to update your profile and fill in all the mandatory information.
Step 06: After filling in profile details, click on ‘Update Profile’. The profile will be updated after entering the verification Code (OTP).
Step 07: Now under services, select ‘Scholarship Services’ and then click on ‘SC Scheme’.
Step 08: Select the Financial Year in which you want to apply for and then click on ‘Change Financial Year’.
Step 09: Select the scheme, read the interaction carefully, and then click on ‘Continue to Service’.
Step 10: Fill in the application form completely and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 11: Now, click on ‘Save as Draft’ and agree with the terms & conditions, and submit the application form by clicking on ‘Confirm & Final Submit’. 
Instructions:
Note 01: Photo uploading for all applicants is mandatory.
Note 02: The application will be considered complete only when all sections are completed.
Note 03: Only one application per applicant will be acceptable for the Food Bill. If any student submits more than one application either from a single institute or from multiple institutions his/her all applications will be rejected by the competent authority and no request from any side will be entertained.
Note 04: In case of any wrong/misleading information provided in the application shall lead to rejection of the application by Department Authorities.
Note 05: All required documents must be carefully scanned as per the instructions given.
Note 06: The student has to fill his/her application carefully as there is no provision for institution change once the application is submitted successfully.
Note 07: The unreadable uploaded documents will allow the competent authority to reject student applications.
Note 08: Direct Individual submission of this application form will not be accepted in case of students studying inside the state.
User Manual- English
User Manual - Gujarati
Documents Required
Passport size photo
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Caste Certificate from the Competent Authority
Income Certificate (Competent Authority) (Form no.16 required for Govt. Employee)
Standard 10th Marksheet
Break Affidavit (If Break Gap is more than One Year)
School Leaving Certificate (If Any)
Marriage Certificate (If Any)
First Page of Bank Passbook/Cancelled Cheque
Death Certificate of Father (If Father not Alive)
Hostel Certificate (Only for Hosteller Student)
Standard 12th Marksheet (If Any)
Graduate Marksheet (If Any)
Other Marksheets/Last Year Marksheet (If Any)
Identity Card (College/School) 
Certificate issued by the Warden (For Hosteller Student Only)
LWP Certificate (For Students Who take Leave Without Pay For Entire Duration of Course)
Any other documents as required
Note: The Validity of the Income Certificate is 3 years. It is advised to check the Income Certificate issue date before uploading the document.
