Marriage Grant for One Daughter (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
DaughterEx-ServicemanFinancial AssistanceGrantMarriage
Details
The scheme "Marriage Grant for One Daughter" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide a one-time financial assistance of ₹25,000/- for the purpose of marriage of one daughter of the ESM. This scheme applies only to the Ex-servicemen/Widows of Ex-servicemen registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
One-time financial assistance of ₹25,000/-.
The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-Serviceman or the Widow of an Ex-Serviceman.
The Ex-Serviceman should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should have a Daughter.
The daughter of the applicant should be 18 years or above in age.
The applicant should not already have received financial assistance through this scheme.
The scope of the financial assistance will also apply to those ESM / living spouse/widows who are re-employed as regular / deemed to be regular in Government/Public Sector Undertakings/Private Organizations and self-employed IT assesses.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
*The application should be sent within three months of marriage.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Rd, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM / Widow of the ESM.
Marriage Certificate, issued by Registrar of Marriage.
Marriage Invitation.
Bills for the purchase of utensils or clothing items.
Affidavit (if applicable).
Declaration.
