Cash Grant in lieu of Sewing Machine
Puducherry
Ex-ServicemanGrantSainikWidow
Details
"Cash Grant in lieu of Sewing Machine" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, ₹10,000/- is provided to the Widows of Ex-servicemen for the purchase of a Sewing Machine. This scheme applies only to the Widows of the ESM registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
A Cash Grant of ₹10,000/- is provided for the purchase of a Sewing Machine.
The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the Widow of an Ex-serviceman.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The scope of this scheme will also apply to those ESM / living spouse/widows who are re-employed as regular / deemed to be regular in Government/Public Sector Undertakings/Private Organizations and self-employed IT assesses.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puduchery Rd, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
ID Card of the Widow.
ID Card of the late Ex-Serviceman.
Discharge Certificate of Ex-Serviceman.
Declaration by the Widow.
Passport-size photograph of the Widow.
