Scheme for Upliftment of Utsavi Rangabhumi of Goa
Goa
ArtistFestivalMusicalTheatreVillage
Details
The “Scheme for Upliftment of Utsavi Rangabhumi of Goa” has been designed by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa with the objective of encouraging the festival theatre of Goa which is known as “Gomantakiya Utsavi Rangabhumi”. This form of theatre has an illustrious tradition of presenting plays during festivals in the villages. Most of the renowned actors of this motherland have a history of performing their first character role on Utsavi Rangabhumi, wherein more than 1000 plays were performed on the occasion of village deities’ festivals all over Goa. The financial support and motivation from the government through this scheme could bring the festive theatre to its original glory.

Objectives
To revive and preserve the festive theatre of Goan villages. 
To encourage local village groups to restart the Houshi Ranghabhumi theatre movement by providing necessary support for the revival of sangeet natak. (Musical plays) performances and prose plays. 
To encourage local female artists and child artists to participate in these plays. 
To encourage amateur artists and to bring discipline to traditional festive theatre. 
To encourage new playwrights, directors, set designers and other stage technicians. 
To create a bonding of unity and brotherhood through the medium of theatre in the villages. 

Benefits
Nature and Quantum of Assistance
Financial assistance for the production of prose play will be a maximum of ₹ 20,000/- or 75% of the actual cost, whichever is less. However, the same could be decided by the selection committee from time to time depending upon the type of the play. 
Financial assistance for the production of the Sangeet play will be a maximum of ₹ 30,000/- or 75% of the actual cost, whichever is less. However, the selection committee may suggest the quantum from time to time.
The department may identify a few groups for providing directional support. In this case, fees of the directors and technical experts, including the duration of short-term production workshops will be decided by the Government from time to time. Undertaking in this regard from the concerned devasthan/traditional village institution/village committee shall be required to be submitted.
The selection committee may recommend an amount of ₹ 3,000/- to the scriptwriter for his new script if desired, based on the quality of the play. 

[NOTE: The village theatre groups could apply for financial assistance towards prose as well for sangeet natak. However, no group will get financial assistance for more than one play per year]
Eligibility
The applicant should be traditional village festive theatre groups/amateur theatre groups. 
The group should have traditions of performing their plays during the village deity festival through devasthan or village institutions. 
There has to be a tradition of performing the plays at least for 25 years.
The theatre group has to perform all the roles including that of the female in the drama from the same village. No professional artist will be allowed.
Traditional theatre group from the same village has to perform the play as the tradition may be and the devasthan or village committee may certify the same.
There should be a Bank Account of the group in the Nationalized/ Scheduled Bank in order to release payment.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Request a hard copy of the proforma from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACO-II, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404623, Email: aco3-dac.goa@nic.in
Documents Required
Copy of registration certificate if registered. 
Copy of detail Estimate Expenditure of the play production. 
Affidavit. 
Play production details of playwright artist. 
If the grant was sanctioned in preceding years, an Original/Copy of the Utilization Certificate may be submitted. 
Bank Details (only Nationalize or scheduled bank).
Please mention the Name of the play (Drama) and attach the script. 
NOC from the Devasthan.
