Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Evam Koshal Sanvardhan Yojana (RS-CSEP)
Rajasthan
DevelopmentEducationLearningWomen
Details
The Rajasthan government's Women and Child Development Department offers a program called Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Evam Koshal Sanvardhan Yojana (RS-CSEP). This free program helps women and girls improve their spoken English and communication skills, along with building their confidence. By learning new skills or sharpening existing ones, participants gain the tools they need to find better jobs, start their own businesses, and achieve financial independence. The program goes beyond just skills training, aiming to empower women by providing support and knowledge in areas like entrepreneurship, leadership, managing money, and personal growth.

Training period :
130 hours (2 hours a day, 5 days a week).

Benefits
RKCL( Rajasthan Knowledge Corporation Limited), free spoken English and personality development training is given to women and girls.
Eligibility
The applicant is a native citizen of Rajasthan.
The applicant's age should be 16 to 45 years old.
The applicant should have passed class 12th.
Widow/divorced/abandoned women suffering from violence be given priority.
Application Process
Online
Registration 
Step1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.  
Step2:Now enter your Mobile number and enter the Code.
Step3:Click send OTP, and Enter OTP to confirm.
Step4:Now you will come to a new page, and read all the instructions before processing.
Step5:Now "Click here to apply online for RS-CSEP Course".
Step6:Enter your details like
         - District 
         - Tehsil
         - Preference 1 or 2
         - Your Name
         - Father Name 
         -  Upload required documents etc.
Step7:After uploading all your important information and documents, click on submit
Step8: After applying, an application ID will be received on your mobile or email.

Login
Step1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.  
Step2:Now Click on Login 
Step3:Now enter your application ID
         - Application Name
         - Father Name 
         - Date of Birth
Step4: Click on login.

Reference number and information about the IT Knowledge Center (for which the trainee has been selected) will be given on the mobile/e-mail ID of the selected trainees, based on which the trainee will be informed about the related I.T. Will report for training at the knowledge center and get biometric registration done.

Training-
Training under the scheme will be conducted by RKCL in their identified I.T. Will be provided at knowledge centers. The attendance of the trainees will be checked through a bio-metric machine. Trainees will have to regularly receive training at the IT Knowledge Centre. Trainees registering less than 65% biometric attendance will not be eligible to appear in the examination and will not be given a certificate. After completion of the prescribed period of training, the trainees will have to participate in the examination conducted by RKCL. Trainees will be given a certificate by RKCL on passing the examination.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Identity card.
Income certificate.
Age certificate.
Address proof.
Class 10th mark sheet.
Class 12th mark sheet.
Copy of the FIR in the case of a woman victim of violence / Domestic Incident Report under the Protection / Copy of the document for registering the case at Women's Safety and Advice Center / Aparajita.
Caste certificate in case of Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
Death certificate of husband in case of widow/talaq deed in case of divorcee/affidavit of desertion in case of deserter.
