Indira Gandhi National Vidhva Pension yojana
Rajasthan
PensionWidowWomen
Details
The scheme “Indira Gandhi National Vidhva Pension Yojana (IGNWPS)” Started On 7-10-2009 under the Social Justice and Empowerment Department, Government. of Rajasthan. Under this scheme, financial support is provided to the widows of the state of Rajasthan. A widow whose household is below the poverty line is eligible to get the benefits of the pension scheme. The beneficiary receives a monthly pension amount consisting of the Central and State governments' share.

Benefits
Women who are more than 40 to less than 75 years old monthly pension of ₹ 1000/-.
Women who are more than 75 years old monthly pension of ₹ 1500/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should have a domicile in the state of Rajasthan.
The applicant should be from a Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The application should be aged 40 years.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step-3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.
  Citizen
Step-4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.
Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,
Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 
Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 
Enter the password.
A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
Enter Mobile number, click on registration.
 Apply 
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step-3: Click on “IFMS-RAJSSP" option.
Step-4: Select "Continue to RajSSP". 
Step-5: Now click on "Apply for Scheme" on screen. 
Step-6: In this new page, will get a list of names of all the schemes,and click on the name of "Yojana"
Step-7: Fill out all relevant details. 
Step-8: Submit.
Documents Required
Photos of applicant. 
Husband's death certificate.
B.P.L. card.
Certificate to confirm age.
