Harvesting Tools Assistance for Scheduled Tribes (HRT-3)
Gujarat
Cooperative SocietyFarmerFIGFinancial AssistanceFPCFPOHarvesting ToolsHRT-3Scheduled TribesSHG
Details
The scheme “Harvesting Tools Assistance for Scheduled Tribes (HRT-3)” is implemented by the Directorate of Horticulture, Agriculture, Farmers Welfare and Co-operation Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to farmers belonging to the Scheduled Tribes category as well as to FPOs (Farmers Producer Organizations), FPCs (Farmers Producer Companies), FIGs (Farmer Interest Groups), SHGs (Self-Help Groups), and Cooperative Societies for purchasing harvesting tools.

Benefits
The Scheduled Tribes farmers will be eligible for assistance up to 50% of the cost of the harvesting tool or ₹1,00,000/-, whichever is less.
FPO/FPC/FIG/SHG/ Cooperative Society will be eligible for assistance of 75% of the cost of the harvesting tool or ₹1,50,000/-, whichever is less.
Note: Unit Cost of harvesting tool should be up to ₹2,00,000/-.
Eligibility
The beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Gujarat.
The beneficiary should belong to the Scheduled Tribe category.
The individual farmer or FPO/FPC/FIG/SHG/Co-operative society is eligible to avail of benefits under the scheme.
The assistance will be available once in five years.
Equipment certified by ISO/BIS/ISI/Government-Recognized organizations should be purchased through an authorized dealer of that company or imported equipment.
Application Process
Online
Application Procedure:
Step 01: The applicant may visit and apply online at I-Khedut Portal: https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Schemes’ and then click on ‘Horticulture Schemes’.
Step 03: Now select the scheme ‘Harvesting Tools’ and then read the instructions for HRT-3.
Step 04: Click on the ‘Apply’ button and an application page will open.
Step 05: Click on the "Apply New" button and submit a new application.
Step 06: Click on the "Update Application" button to add corrections to the application.
Step 07: Once the application is done, confirm it.
Step 08: Take a printout of the confirmed application.
Step 09: Take a printout of the online application and submit it to the office/office address mentioned on the application along with the necessary documents. Or after applying Khedut online on the iKhedut Portal, take a print of the signature/ fingerprint and scan it, and upload it by clicking on the "Upload Signed Copy of Application Print" menu on the portal.
Note 01: The facility to upload a scanned copy of the caste certificate is also enabled in the "Other Document Upload" menu wherever applicable.
Note 02: There is no need for the farmer to submit the application in person at the office.
Note 03: Scanned copy uploaded in PDF format should not exceed 200 KB in size.
Application Tracking:
Applicant can also check their Application Status/View/Print/Upload Application details from the below link: https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/public/frm_Applicant_Corner.aspx 
Documents Required
Scheduled Tribes certificate issued  by competent authority
Disability Certificate from Competent Authority (only for PWDs) (if applicable)
Copy of land details 7/12 and 8-A
Copy of Aadhaar Card
Copy of bank passbook or cancelled cheque
Copy of Forest Rights letter (if applicable)
Samanti Form (for partners holding land in joint name) (if applicable)
In case of FPO/FPC, Co-operative Society, documents relating to registration purpose, activities, constitution, members, etc., and audit report of the last one year of the auditable entity (if applicable)
Any other documents as required
