Family Pension (GBOCWWB)
Goa
Financial AssistancePensionSpouseWidowWidower
Details
"Family Pension (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa. Through this scheme, in the event of the death of the pensioner of the Board, a family pension is given to his/her surviving spouse. The pension to the spouse will be 50% of the pension that used to be provided to the pensioner (the deceased), or ₹200/-, whichever is higher.

Benefits
50% of the pension that used to be provided to the pensioner (the deceased) or ₹200/-, whichever is higher.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the Spouse of the Pensioner.
The Pensioner should be deceased.
The deceased Pensioner, in their lifetime, should have been registered as a Worker with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste a passport-sized photograph (if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
*The application should be submitted offline within three months from the date of death of the pensioner.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Death Certificate of the Worker.
Village Officer's Certificate showing the relationship between the applicant and the Worker.
Village Officer's Certificate stating that the applicant is not receiving any pension from a Government/Semi-Government/Private Institution.
Village Officer's Certificate stating that the applicant is not receiving any salary from a Government/Semi-Government/Private Institution.
