Death Benefit (GBOCWWB)
Goa
AccidentDeathFinancial AssistanceLabourWorker
Details
"Death Benefit (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of the Department of Labour and Employment, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, the nominee/dependant of the deceased worker is provided with financial assistance. The death should have either been natural or caused due to an accident, during the course of employment. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹30,000/-, if the death was natural.
Financial Assistance of ₹1,00,000/-, if the death was due to an accident, during the course of employment.
Eligibility
The deceased should have been a Worker.
The deceased should have been between 18 to 60 years of age.
The deceased should have completed ninety days of service as a registered worker.
The deceased should have been registered with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should be the nominee/dependant of the deceased.
The death of the worker should have either been natural or caused due to an accident during the course of employment.
The nominee/dependant of the unregistered workers shall be eligible upon the production of a certificate from the builder or Inspector of the area stating that the deceased was a building worker.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Death Certificate of the Worker.
A Certificate Citing the Cause of Death, issued by a Government Doctor, not below the Rank of an Assistant Surgeon.
Document Establishing the Relationship between the Deceased Worker and the Applicant.
Certificate from Builder or Inspector of the Area, in the case of nominee/dependant of the unregistered workers.
