Purchase/Construction of House for the Construction Workers
Delhi
ConstructionFinancial AssistanceLabourWorker
Details
The "Purchase/Construction of House for the Construction Workers" by the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Delhi, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Through this scheme, an advance amount of ₹3,00,000/- to ₹5,00,000/- is provided to the registered workers for purchasing or construction of houses. The amount sanctioned as advance shall be recovered in equal instalments as may be fixed by the Board. The house constructed will be under hypothecation to the Board till the last instalment of advance is paid by the

Benefits
₹3,00,000/- to the workers who have 10 years left to complete 60 years of age.
₹5,00,000/- to the workers who have 15 years left to complete  60 years of age.
Eligibility
For Registration
The applicant should be a resident of Delhi.
The applicant should be a Building/Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For Application
The applicant should have a minimum of 10 years to 15 years of service for superannuation.
The applicant should have been registered with the Board for not less than three years.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Register Now”.
Step 2: Enter the following mandatory details: Aadhaar Card Number, Name as on Aadhar Card, Mobile Number, Date of Birth (as on Aadhar Card), Gender, etc. Create a password and confirm it. Click “Register”. You will be redirected to the registration page.
Step 3: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Father Name, Mother Name, Photograph, Applicant’s Video, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 4: On the next page, enter the mandatory details regarding your work/workplace (Previous/Current Employer Details, Proof of 90 Days Employment, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 5: Click on “Add Family Members” to avail the benefits of various schemes.
Step 6: In the next window, add your Bank Account details.
Step 7: In the next window, upload your Aadhaar Card, Address Proof, Birth Proof, Employment Proof, Bank Account details etc.
Step 8: In the next window, the "Affidavit of the Applicant" will be displayed. Verify all the details, and click on the checkbox.
Step 9: Proceed for the online registration fee of ₹25/- through a Debit Card/ Internet Banking/ UPI.
Step 10: Enter the OTP received on your registered mobile number to apply. Note down the Application Number for future reference. Download the acknowledgement receipt.
Track Your Application
Visit the homepage of the website regularly and click on "Track Your Application" to check the status of your application.
Application
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Apply for Scheme”.
Step 2: Log in through Aadhaar Number/ Registration Card/ OTP.
Step 3: Apply for the “Ex-gratia payment” scheme.

Helpline Number (24x1) : 011-41236600
DBOCWWB Department
Number (office hours: 9:30AM - 6:00PM) : 011-23813846
Documents Required
For the Purchase of the House
Encumbrance certificate of 14 years
Land Tax receipt.
Ownership of the Building.
Title Clearance certificate.
Sale Agreement.
Undertaking (in affidavit) for repaying the amount sanctioned as an advance in equal instalments as may be fixed by the Board.
Undertaking (in affidavit) form Surety(s).
For Construction of House
Approved Plan and estimate for the construction.
Undertaking (in affidavit) for repaying the amount sanctioned as advance in equal instalments as may be fixed by the Board.
