Swahid Kushal Konwar Sarbajanin Briddha Pension Achoni
Assam
PensionSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
Launched on 2nd October 2018 by the Hon'ble Chief Minister of Assam, the scheme "Swahid Kushal Konwar Sarbajanin Briddha Pension Achoni" is a Pension Scheme by the Dept. of Panchayat & Rural Development, Govt. of Assam. The objective of the scheme is to streamline the payment of old-age pensions and funds. The scheme is meant for the residents of the State of Assam, who are aged above 60 years. The beneficiary will be granted a sum of ₹ 250/- per month through DBT. The pension amount will be remitted on the first day of every month to the account of the beneficiary. The scheme is expected to cover 15,000-20,000 people in every constituency.

Benefits
The beneficiary will be granted a sum of ₹ 250/- per month through DBT. 
The pension amount will be remitted on the first day of every month to the account of the beneficiary. 
Eligibility
The scheme is meant for the residents of the State of Assam, who are 60 years or above in age.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Gaon Panchayat/Development Block/ Municipal Corporation/Municipal Board/Town Committee of the respective jurisdiction.
Request for a print of the Application Format for "Swahid Kushal Konwar Sarbajanin Briddha Pension Achoni".

Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory details, and attach the self-attested documents. The following details shall be needed:
Name of the Applicant.
Name of the Applicant’s Father/Mother/Husband/Wife.
Gender of the Applicant.
Date of Birth of the Applicant
Category of Caste (ST/SC/OBC/Others).
Details of Address, which includes the District; Block; Panchayat; Village; Ward Number; and Landmark of the Applicant.
Details of the Bank Account, which includes the Name of the Bank; the Name of the Branch; the IFSC Code; and the Account Number.
Mobile Number of the Applicant.
NOTE: The application must be supported with the signature or thumb impression of the concerned applicant.

Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form, along with the required documents, to your nearest Gaon Panchayat/Development Block/ Municipal Corporation/Municipal Board/Town Committee of the respective jurisdiction.

Upon submission of the application, the beneficiary will start receiving the pension amounts if the particulars mentioned in the form are accurate and applies to the context.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Proof of Identity
Proof of Age / Date of Birth
Domicile/Residential Certificate of the state of Assam
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account
