Reimbursement of Tuition Fees to the Wards of Ex-Servicemen/Widows (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
Ex-ServicemanReimbursementStudentTuition FeesWidow
Details
"Reimbursement of Tuition Fees to the Wards of Ex-Servicemen/Widows (Sainik Welfare)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, the wards of the ESM / Widows of ESM studying in Government-recognized Institutions are provided reimbursement of their tuition fees. The application should be submitted offline within three months from the date of completion of the education.

Benefits
Monthly Stipend (in ₹) According to the Level of Qualification
School: 1,000.
Military/Sainik Schools: 2,000.
School for Special Children: 2,000.
Diploma in Polytechnic: 800.
NDA/IMA (National Defence Academy/Indian Military Academy): 2,000.
Bachelor Degree: 1,000.
Master Degree: 1,500.
Professional Course (MBBS/BE/BTech) (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery / Bachelor of Engineering / Bachelor of Technology): 2,000.
*The rate listed above or the actual cost of the fee, whichever is less, is reimbursed.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Ward of an Unemployed ESM / Ward of the Widow of an ESM.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The Ward should be studying in a Government-recognized Institution.
The scheme is applicable for upto two wards of the Unemployed ESM / Widow of an ESM.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM / Widow of the ESM.
Discharge Certificate of the ESM.
Proof of Successful Completion of the Course.
In the case of 'Management Quota', a Certificate from the Institute.
Details of Fees Paid (Original receipt).
Where the fee is collected in lump sum, a certificate showing the breakdown of fees indicating the category, signed by the head of the institution.
Declaration.
Birth Certificate of the Ward (if not already registered with the DSW).
Study Certificate of the Ward (if not already registered with the DSW).
First Page of Bank Passbook.
