Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana
Ministry of Women and Child Development
Cash IncentiveFinancial AssistanceGood NutritionMaternity Benefit ProgrammePregnant Women
Details
The Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY) is a Centrally Sponsored flagship scheme by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, designed to support pregnant women and lactating mothers. The scheme is to provide maternity benefits to women belonging to socially and economically disadvantaged sections of society. The maternity benefit is to be provided to a woman for the first two living children provided the second child is a girl. For the first child the maternity benefit of ₹5,000/- is provided in two instalments under PMMVY and the beneficiary is also entitled to receive the cash incentive as per approved norms towards Maternity Benefit under Janani Suraksha Yojana (JSY) after institutional delivery so that on an average, a women gets ₹6,000/-. For the second child, the benefit of ₹6,000/- is to be provided subject to second child is a girl child, in one installment after the birth. Cases of miscarriage/still births are to be treated as fresh cases for providing maternity benefit under the scheme. Further, as per the new guidelines for 'Mission Shakti’, applicable with effect from 01.04.2022, the scheme (PMMVY 2.0) seeks to promote positive behavioral change towards girl child by providing additional cash incentive for the second child, if that is a girl child. Thus, for the second child, the benefit of ₹6,000/- is to be provided in one instalment post birth. This would contribute towards improving Sex Ratio at Birth by discouraging female feticide. Also, in case of miscarriage/stillbirth, the beneficiary will be treated as a fresh beneficiary in the event of any future pregnancy.

Benefits
The cash incentives is provided in two instalments for the first child as per the schedule provided in
table below:
Scheme Condition for First Child
Instalment  Conditions Amount (in Rs.)
First Instalment On registration of pregnancy and at least one Antenatal checkup within six months from last menstrual period date at the Anganwadi Centre or approved Health facilities may be identified by the respective administering State/UT.  3,000/-
Second Instalment Childbirth is registered. The child has received all due vaccines till the age of 14 weeks as admissible under the Universal Immunization Programme of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. 2,000/-
Scheme Condition for Second Child (if it is a girl child)
Single Instalment On registration of pregnancy and at least one Ante-Natal Check-up (ANC) within six months from LMP at the Anganwadi Centre (AWC) approved Health facilities may be identified by the respective administering State/UT. The girl child birth shall be registered under this Scheme. The girl child has received all due vaccines till the girl child attains age of fourteen weeks from the date of birth as admissible under the Universal Immunization Programme of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. 6,000/-
In case of miscarriage/still birth, the beneficiary would be treated as fresh beneficiary in event of any
future pregnancy. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be of at least 19 years old and a pregnant women.
The applicant should be employed and experiencing wage-loss due to the pregnancy.
The scheme is applicable only for the first live birth.
Eligible beneficiary can apply for the benefit under PMMVY scheme within 270 days from the child birth. 
If a beneficiary delivers twins/ triplets/ quadruplets in her second pregnancy, with one or more children being girl, she will receive incentive for second girl child as per the PMMVY 2.0 norms.
Criteria for determining socially and economically disadvantaged sections of society are the following:
Women belonging to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes
Women who are partially (40%) or fully disabled (Divyang Jan)
Women holder of BPL Ration Card
Women Beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY) under Ayushman Bharat.
Women holding e-Shram card
Women farmers who are beneficiaries under Kisan Samman Nidhi
Women holding MGNREGA Job Card
Women whose net family income is less than Rs. 8 Lakh per annum
Pregnant and Lactating AWWs/ AWHs/ ASHAs
Women holding Ration Card under NFSA Act 2013.
Any other category as may be prescribed by the Central Government
Application Process
Online
Citizen visit the official website of the Ministry and click on the Citizen login tab.
Enter mobile number and verify. Then enter details like Full Name, State, District, Area, Block, Village and relationship with beneficiary. Then click create account button.  
Once account is created. Click on Login tab on main homepage of the website.
Now, enter the User ID, Password and Captcha code. Then apply for the scheme.
After successful login, click on the "Data Entry" tab and choose the option "Beneficiary Registration".
Now, enter all the detailed personal details on the Beneficiary registration page.
Choose suitable option under the Scheme applying for First Child OR Second Child.
Once all the form details are completed. Click Submit Button.
Documents Required
Beneficiaries need documents such as:-
Aadhaar card, 
Aadhaar mapped bank/post office,
Bank account details, 
Eligibility proof, 
MCP/RCHI card, 
LMP date, 
ANC date, 
Child birth certificate, 
Child immunization details etc.
Mentioned below a list of documents which required to upload at the time of registration (any one of
these):-
Women whose net family income is less than ₹ 8 Lakh per annum.
Women holding MGNREGA Job Card.
Women farmers who are beneficiaries under Kisan Samman Nidhi.
Women holding e-Shram card.
Women Beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY) under Ayushman Bharat.
Women holder of BPL ration Card.
Women who are partially (40%) or fully disabled (Divyang Jan).
SC Women.
ST Women.
Pregnant and Lactating AWWS/ AWHS/ASHAS.
Women Beneficiaries holding Ration card under National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013.
All the mandatory provisions like Aadhaar, Aadhaar based payment etc. will be checked at the time of registration for smooth and efficient process. Mobile number has been made mandatory for providing information regarding the status of application and disbursement of fund. Mobile App has been introduced for registration under Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY). 
