Paternity Benefit Scheme (HBOCWWB)
Haryana
ChildConstruction WorkerFinancial AssistanceLabourNewbornPaternitySocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Paternity Benefit Scheme (HBOCWWB)” was launched by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹21,000/- (i.e. ₹15,000/- for proper care of the newborn baby and ₹6,000/- for nutritious food for the wife) will be given to registered male construction workers as paternity benefits. Further, the paternity benefits under the scheme will be given to registered male workers on the birth of child up to two children but expandable up to the birth of three daughters irrespective of the order of their birth.

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹21,000/- (i.e. ₹15,000/- for proper care of the newborn baby and ₹6,000/- for nutritious food for the wife) will be given to a registered male construction worker whose wife has delivered a baby.
The paternity benefit is given to the male registered worker for up to two children but is expandable up to the birth of three daughters irrespective of the order of their birth.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a male construction worker.
The male worker should be registered under Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB).
The registered worker should have a minimum of one-year regular membership.
Only the registered worker whose wife has delivered a baby is eligible to avail of the benefits under the scheme.
The wife of the registered worker has not claimed the maternity benefit from any other employer.  
Note 01: The benefits of the scheme will be given on the birth of child up to two children but expandable up to the birth of three daughters irrespective of the order of their birth.
Note 02: It is mandatory to submit all the documents to the competent authority within a period of one year from the date of delivery of the wife.
Note 03: After the birth of the child, it is necessary to attach the birth certificate along with the application.
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Construction Worker Under HBOCWWB:
Step 01: The construction worker should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building & Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)- Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID
• Select a family member for registration
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: Aadhaar Verification before Registration: Provide your Aadhaar number and tick mark the checkbox for the declaration. Click on the “Continue” button.
Step 06: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 07: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, a worker can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
Step 08: To avail of the benefits, a worker has to pay the registration fee and add a work experience of a minimum of 90 days of the preceding year.
Step 09: Now, the worker needs to add work experience, to add 90 days of experience, the applicant has to fill in all the details where he/she has worked.
Step 10: The schemes and other benefits can be availed once the 90 days’ work experience is approved by the
Officer.
Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the workers need to visit Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 02: If the worker is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number & password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
HBOCW Registration User Manual       HBOCW Registration Basic Instructions & Features
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter Card
Passport-size photograph
A copy of  Undertaking
A copy Work Slip
Proof of residence 
Ration Card
Bank account details
Caste Certificate
Birth Certificate
An undertaking stating that the wife of the applicant has not claimed the maternity benefit from any other employer.
Note 01: After the birth of child, it is necessary to attach the birth certificate along with the application form.
Note 02: It is mandatory to submit all the documents to the competent authority within a period of one year from the date of delivery of the worker’s wife.
