Junior Merit (Class - 11 To 12)
Odisha
Class XIClass XIIE-medhabrutiScholarshipStudents
Details
The Government of Odisha in School & Mass Education Department is awarding "Junior Merit Scholarship" under the Scheme 'e-medhabruti’ out of the State budget to provide financial assistance to the meritorious Higher Secondary School students of Odisha from families whose parental income does not exceed 6.00 lakhs to meet a part of their educational expenses while pursuing their higher studies.
                   The scholarship is awarded to students pursuing Class XI & XII in the Higher Secondary Schools of the State.
Merit Criteria For Selection: The following factors will be taken into consideration:
  Fulfillment of eligibility conditions as given in the scheme.
Online authentication/validation of student records by the Principal of the concerned Higher Secondary School/Institute.
  Final Merit/Selection lists of the students will be drawn in terms of the percentage of marks obtained in the HSC examination from among the validated students in the merit, proportionately based on the data. The mode of selection for scholarship shall be made through descending order of merit till it reaches the eligible quota of scholarship. For example, a student who has secured 92% of mark in the last examination shall come first then the one who has secured 91% mark, and so on.
 In case of a tie in the percentage of marks under a particular type of scholarship and some are to be left out due to exceeding the maximum quota of scholarship, then the parental income ceiling will be considered i.e. the student with a lower parental income ceiling will get preference.
 The CBSE/ICSE grading system in the form of CGPA i.e. Grade points shall be converted to the percentage by multiplying with 9.5 formula percentage (%) = CGPA x 9.5.
Procedure for Disbursement:
           The scholarship would be sanctioned subject to fulfillment of the prescribed eligibility criteria by the students and validation/authentication by the Principals of the concerned Higher Secondary Schools/ Institutes in online mode only. The scholarship will be paid to the selected students by the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education through DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) mode only. It will be transferred to the Bank account of the beneficiaries.
Duration of Scholarship and its Renewal:
            A student will be eligible for the scholarship for the total duration of the course (Class XI to XII). Scholarship awarded to any student under State Scholarship Portal is automatically renewable, subject to the student continuing in Class XII (2nd Year) and online validation authentication done by the institute.
Cancellation of Scholarship: The scholarship sanctioned is liable to be cancelled on the following occasions.
1. If the student is found to have obtained a scholarship by false statements/ fabricated documents.
2. If the student discontinues his/her studies, the scholarship shall be stopped from the subsequent year.

Benefits
The students pursuing Class XI & XII in the Higher Secondary Schools of the State will receive a scholarship amount of ₹3000/- per year.
The number of scholarships will be awarded to 10,000 students (Boys & Girls in 50:50 ratio).
Eligibility
The student must be a permanent resident of Odisha State.
The Student must have passed HSC with 60% or more marks from an institution recognized by BSE Odisha, CBSE, ICSE, or Equivalent Boards, and pursuing regular Class XI courses of 10+2.
The income of the parents of the students from all sources should not exceed ₹6.00 lakh per annum.
Students shall apply for Junior Merit Scholarship in the 1st year of the course (Class XI).
The students belong to General, SC, ST, OBC/SEBC & EBC categories may eligible to apply.
Application Process
Online
To apply for the scholarship, eligible students need to follow the below-given steps:
Step 01: Applications will be invited from eligible students each year on the State Scholarship Portal.
Step 02: Click the Registration link at the portal, only eligible students can apply for the scholarship. https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/website/student-registration
Step 03: Enter the Aadhaar number and proceed further.
Step 04: Check your registered mobile or email to get the user ID and password.
Step 05: Click the login link at the portal and enter the User ID and password to apply for the scholarship.
Step 06: Provide all necessary details like personal, academic, eligibility, and bank information.
Step 07: Click on the "Save as draft" button to draft the information or click on the 'Next' button to save and proceed with the scholarship form.
Step 08: The preview of the completed form will appear on the page. Download the forms and take its print out.
Step 09: Concerned students are advised to keep the applicant copy for their future reference.

Note 01: Aadhaar Card authentication is mandatory to avoid any duplicity.
Note 02: Outside students (students of Odisha but studying outside Odisha) are also required to apply online for this scholarship
Note 03: Application which is not validated/authenticated by the Higher Secondary School/ Institute will be treated as "Invalid".
Note 04: Merit/selection list as per quota would be generated from the verified applications.
Note 05: The Scholarships meant for Class Xl Students shall be awarded to boys and girls in 50:50 ratios. In case the requisite number of candidates (Boys/Girls) is not available under any gender, then the balance number of scholarships shall be awarded to the other eligible applicants.
Note 06: Multiple registrations/applications by a student for a particular category of merit are strictly prohibited.
Note 07: If any of the authenticated records are found to have invalid documents, the case will be summarily rejected.
Note 08: Any type of wrong entry made by students i.e. parental income, maximum and secured mark, percentage of the mark, etc. leading to rejection of application (i.e. the student fails to be in the final merit list), then the applicant will be solely responsible for the rejection.
Documents Required
The following legible documents will be uploaded at the time of applying under the scheme,
Domicile certificate to be issued by the competent authority, i.e. from the concerned Tahasildar /Addl. Tahasildar, The students whose parents are working under Odisha State. Govt. can produce resident proof from the employer.
Proof of annual income to be issued by the competent authority, i.e. the Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tahasildar or Addl, Tahasildar.
Mark sheets & Certificate of last qualifying examination i.e. HSC from an institution recognized by BSE Odisha, CBSE, ICSE, Equivalent Boards.
Bank Account details of the student concerned (First page of bank account containing account number and IFSC).
Higher Secondary School ID card issued by concerned authority. While in the absence of the same, the student may provide an Admission receipt/Library Card/Letter of undertaking from concerned Higher Secondary School authority anyone).
Aadhaar Card of the student concerned.
Passport-size Photograph of the student.

Note 01: The students must have an active and valid account in any nationalized bank which has an Electronic Clearing System (ECS)/Core Banking facility to facilitate the transfer of scholarship amount directly to their account.
Note 02: The bank account must be in the name of the applicant/student only. Students must enter their Bank/Branch name, saving bank account number, and IFSC code very carefully to ensure a smooth transfer of the scholarship amount.
