Financial Assistance for Medical Treatment of Journalists
Tamil Nadu
DaughterDiseaseFinancial AssistanceMedical
Details
The Tamil Development, Religious Endowments, and Information Department scheme was launched by the "Financial Assistance for Medical Treatment of Journalists".  Under this scheme, financial assistance was provided to four Journalists for medical treatment and to the daughter of a journalist for surgery. The total financial assistance extended under the scheme was ₹4,00,000/-. 

Benefits
Medical Assistant of ₹4,00,000/-. 
Eligibility
The petitioner should be working as a full-time working journalist.
The petitioner should have work experience of at least 5 years. 
The petitioner must apply within three months of undergoing medical treatment.
The annual income shall not be taken into account for obtaining medical assistance funds for journalists.
The treatment must be conducted in hospitals recognized by the Tamil Nadu State Hospital Organization.
The retired journalist receiving government pension are eligible to apply but they will receive 50% of the financial assistance. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant can download the application form from the official website. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District News Public Relations Officer. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District News Public Relations Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE 1: If there is less space for writing details in the forms, write the details on a separate sheet of paper and attach it to the application. 
NOTE 2: Candidate should send two completed application forms with all details duly filled and attached with relevant certificates.
Documents Required
Two Passport-size Photograph.
Birth Certificate.
Copy of decree decreed for receipt of service certificate/pension (Only if pensioner)
Income certificate
Experience Certificate
Proof of Residence (Copy of Family Card/Voter ID Card)
Treatment Copy (what disease the petitioner is suffering from and what treatment is given to him)
Tentative Cost of the Surgery (by obtaining a certificate from the doctor & getting the round seal of the hospital and attaching it to the petition to be sent).
