Financial Assistance for Education- Haryana Silicosis Board
Haryana
EducationFinancial AssistanceSilicosisStudentWorker
Details
The “Financial Assistance for Education” scheme is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹5,000/- to ₹12,000/- per year is given to the children of workers who are suffering from silicosis as confirmed by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, Haryana. Assistance is provided to children studying from Class I to Master’s Degree, with assistance available for up to two boys and up to three girls of the affected workers, irrespective of the order of birth.
Note: Silicosis, an incurable lung disease prevalent in workplaces like stone crushers and mines, is a notifiable disease in Haryana under the Factories Act, of 1948, and the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE & CS) Act, of 1996. Upon confirmation by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, affected workers are swiftly referred to hospitals for treatment; those under the Employee State Insurance Act, 1948 receive care at ESI hospitals, while others are provided free treatment at district hospitals and medical colleges by the Health Department, with the option for reimbursement for necessary resources unavailable locally, facilitated by the Labour Department.
Symptoms of Silicosis:
• Associated with T.B  
• Shortness of breath  
• Fatigue 
• Loss of appetite (Anorexia).  
• Chest pain; dry with non-productive cough (Whooping Cough). 
• Respiratory failure
• Eventually leads to death

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance for education will be given to the children of workers at the following rates:
Sl. No. Class/Course Amount of Assistance (Per year)
1 Class 1-5 ₹5,000/-
2 Class 6-8 ₹6,000/-
3 Class 9-10 ₹8,000/-
4 Class 11-12  ₹10,000/-
5 ITI Diploma/Graduation/Post-Graduation ₹12,000/-
Eligibility
The applicant/worker should be employed in a factory or at a construction site.
The worker who is suffering from silicosis as confirmed by the Silicosis Diagnosis Board, Haryana are eligible to apply under this scheme for their children.
The worker should be registered with the Haryana Silicosis Board.
The children of workers should be studying in a class ranging from Class I to Master’s Degree.
Assistance will be available for up to two boys and up to three girls of affected workers, regardless of the order of birth of the children.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Registration under the Haryana Silicosis Board:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the nearest Labour Office and collect the application form. The Application Performa (Annexure I) may also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: Fill out the application form with all required details, ensuring accuracy and completeness.
Step 03: Attach all necessary documents, including medical certificates, proof of identity, etc.
Step 04: Submit the filled application form along with supporting documents to the Assistant Director, Industrial Health of your concerned jurisdiction.
Step 05: The Assistant Director will review the application and then forward it to the Office of the Labour Commissioner-cum-Welfare Commissioner, Haryana.
Step 06: Await notification from the Labour Department, Haryana regarding the approval or any further requirements for your application.
Step 07: Upon approval, the applicant will receive their registration details.
Apply for scheme benefits:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the nearest Labour Office and collect the application form. The Application Performa (Annexure VII) may also be downloaded from the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: Fill out the application form with all required details, ensuring accuracy and completeness.
Step 03: Attach all necessary documents, including medical certificates, proof of identity, and the certificate of being the widow/widower or nominee, if applicable etc.
Step 04: Submit the filled application form along with supporting documents to the Assistant Director, Industrial Health of your concerned jurisdiction.
Step 05: The Assistant Director will review the application and then forward it to the Office of the Labour Commissioner-cum-Welfare Commissioner, Haryana.
Step 06: Await notification from the Labour Department regarding the approval or any further requirements for your application.
Step 07: Upon approval, the financial assistance will be processed and provided to the applicant as per the scheme's guidelines.
Documents Required
Documents required for registration under the Haryana Silicosis Board:
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Medical Report (X-Ray, CT Scan, Medical Prescription, Any Other)
General Document ( ESI Card, Any Other)
Work experience document
Proof of residence
Ration Card
Bank account details
Proof of age
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefits:
Identity card of worker
Copy of Aadhaar Card & Voter ID Card of applicant
Death certificate of the worker if worker is not alive
Admission Certificate of the child issued by school/college
Result/marksheet  of previous Class
Proof of birth certificate
Copy of Bank Passbook
Any other documents as required
