West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme: Subsidy for Water conservation/ Environment Compliance
West Bengal
EntrepreneurshipEnvironment ComplianceIncentivesReimbursementSubsidyTextileWaiverWater Conservation
Details
The scheme “Subsidy for Water Conservation/ Environment Compliance” is a sub scheme under “West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme”. It was launched on 13 December, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto five years.
Objective of the "West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme” Scheme:
The object of the scheme is to extend fiscal incentives to textile sector across the entire value chain starting from fibre to stitched garments for setting up such units in the State. The focus is on accelerated and focused development of the textiles sector across the state. This shall enable to maximize the utilization of resources, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the state emerge as the preferred destination for investment in the textile sector.
Objective of the "Subsidy for Water Conservation/ Environment Compliance" Scheme:
Through this incentive, an eligible textile sector enterprise for its approved project will be entitled to a reimbursement of expenditure incurred by it towards the cost of captive Effluent Water Treatment Plant for wastewater recycling and/ or other pollution control devices.

Benefits
A reimbursement of 25%  subject to a maximum of ₹ 1,50,00,000/-.
For a cluster of units with a minimum of 5 units with an investment of minimum Rs. 200 crores, the state Govt. in the MSMET department will set up a Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP) to be run by an Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) of the clustered units and the running cost will be borne by those units.
Eligibility
Industries in the manufacturing and processing of textiles, apparel and technical textiles products.
The unit should have started production on or after 1st April 2022.
The units may be in the private sector, co-operative sector, joint sector as also companies/undertakings owned or managed by the State Government.
Shall not be applicable to the industrial units/enterprises.
The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions.
The unit should hold an Registration Certificate, Date of Commencement Certificate and Eligibility Certificate issued by the Directorate of Textiles on satisfaction of arrangement.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 1: Visit the registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details in that window and click on “Register”.
Step 3: You will be registered successfully with a confirmation.
Application Process:
Step 1: Visit the user login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Login with your registered Mail Id and Password. 
Step 3: Fill up the eligible form.
Step 4: Check your eligibility in the portal.
Step 5: Fill up your Common Application Form (CAF).
Step 6: Fill up Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 7: Download and Self sign Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 8: Upload signed copy of Form A and copy of Form C (if any).
Step 9: Submit Your Application.
Helpdesk: Directorate of Textile.
Documents Required
Copies of relevant bills, money receipts for expenditure incurred towards cost of Captive Effluent Water Treatment Plant and Pollution Control Devices.
Details of Captive Effluent Water Treatment Plant and Pollution Control Devices.
Any other documents as required.
