Financial Assistance To Kashmiri Migrants Families Scheme
Haryana
FamilyFinancial AssistanceJammu And KashmirKashmiriMigrants
Details
Launched on 1st April 2006, the scheme “Financial Assistance To Kashmiri Migrants Families Scheme” by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Haryana, financial assistance of ₹1250/- per month per family member is provided for five years to the Kashmiri families which have migrated from Jammu & Kashmir to Haryana and are living in various parts of the State. The financial assistance is subject to a maximum of ₹6,250/- per family.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹1,250/- per month per family member for 5 years, subject to a maximum of ₹6,250/- per family per month, provided for re-settlement.
Eligibility
The applicant family should have been displaced from Jammu & Kashmir.
The applicant family should have migrated to Haryana from Jammu & Kashmir.
The applicant family should be residing in Haryana.
The annual income of the family, from all sources, should not exceed ₹2,00,000/-.
The term ‘Family’ would mean 'the family of the applicant at the time of displacement from Jammu & Kashmir'.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO), and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR 
The applicant should take print of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the DSWO.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Certificate of the Migrated State, issued by the Sub Divisional Official (Civil).
Ration Card, issued by the Food & Supplies Department, Haryana.
Voter ID Card, issued by Election Department, Haryana.
Aadhaar Card.
Details of the Saving Bank Account.
Family ID Proof.
Income Certificate
Passport-size Photographs.
Copy of the Passbook.
