Mahila Kisan Yojana
Haryana
EmploymentEnterpreneurLoanScheduled CasteSubsidyWomen
Details
The scheme "Mahila Kisan Yojana" is an economic empowerment scheme by the Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation, Government of Haryana. Through this scheme, loans are provided to the eligible women from Scheduled Castes for the betterment of their economic status through self-employment activities in the Agriculture and Allied Sector. The Corporation in collaboration with NSFDC provide loan for various economic development schemes having unit cost upto ₹ 50,000/-. The Corporation provides margin money @ 10% of the project cost.

Benefits
Loan for various economic development schemes having unit cost up to ₹50,000/-.
Margin Money at 10% of the project cost.
Subsidy at 50% of the total project cost (max. ₹10,000/-).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a female.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be from a 'Scheduled Caste'.
The applicant's annual family income should not exceed the Below Poverty Line (BPL).
The applicant's name should be present in the BPL survey list.
The income ceiling is at least 50% of the beneficiaries having annual family income upto ₹1,50,000/- and balance 50% of the beneficiaries having annual family income upto ₹3,00,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website of the "Antyodaya SARAL" Portal.
Step 2: In the "SIGN IN HERE" section, click "New user? Register here".
Step 3: The registration form will open in a new window of the browser. Fill in all the mandatory fields of the form. Create a strong password. The password should be at least '9' characters with at least one special character(!@#$%^&*), one numeric, one small case and one upper case letter (i.e ADmin@357). Fill in the captcha code and click "Submit".
Step 4: An OTP will be sent to the email ID and the Mobile Number provided in the registration form. The OTP received will be for single use only and will be valid for 15 minutes from the time of request. The verification link received over email will be valid for 48 hours from the time of request. On successfully validating the Email ID and Mobile Number via OTP, the following message will be displayed to the user: "You have successfully registered on https://saralharyana.gov.in/. Please login to the application using your email ID and password".
Step 5: Visit the official website of the "Antyodaya SARAL" Portal. In the "SIGN IN HERE" section, log in using your Login ID and Password.
Step 6: On the next screen, in the left pane, click on ‘Apply for Service’, then click "View All Available Services".
Step 7: You will be shown a list of schemes/services. Click on the scheme you intend to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory details, click on ‘Self-Declaration’. Enter the verification code/Captcha and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Step 9: Preview all the filled details and click on ‘Attach Annexure’. Upload all the mandatory documents and click on ‘Save Annexure’.
Step 10: After verifying all the details, click on the ‘Submit’ button. Take a printout of the generated ‘Acknowledgement Receipt’ for future reference.

Track Your Application/ Appeal
Through Portal
Step 1: Visit the SARAL Portal at https://status.saralharyana.nic.in/
Step 2: Click "Tracking Feature".
Step 3: Select the department and service from the dropdown menu.
Step 4: Enter your Appeal/ Application Reference ID (provided to you when you applied for the service) and click on "CHECK STATUS".
Through SMS
From your registered mobile number, send the following SMS to 7738299899:
SARAL<space>Application ID

SARAL Helpline
0172-3968400 (7:00 AM to 8:00 PM; Monday to Saturday, excluding Govt Holidays)
saral.haryana@gov.in

User Manual for Application
https://saralharyana.gov.in/resources/homePage/6/pdf/Using%20Saral.pdf
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Caste Certificate.
