Monetary Relief to the Victim of Atrocities- Haryana
Haryana
AtrocityMonetary ReliefScheduled CasteScheduled TribeVictim Of Atrocities
Details
The scheme “Monetary Relief to the Victim of Atrocities” is implemented by the Directorate of Welfare of Scheduled Caste & Backward Classes, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance ranging from ₹85,000/- to ₹8,25,000/- is provided to the members of Scheduled Caste who becomes victims of atrocity by Non-Scheduled Caste persons for various acts like damage and loss of properties, grievous hurt, temporary/permanent incapacitation, Murder, death, rape, gang rape, kidnapping, outrage of modesty etc. and FIR is registered under the provisions of SC/ST(PoA) Act,1989. The financial assistance is given as per the norms prescribed in Annexure-I annexed with the SC/ST(PoA) Rules, 1995.

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance ranging from ₹85,000/- to ₹8,25,000/- is provided to the members of Scheduled Caste who becomes victims of atrocity by Non-Scheduled Caste persons for various acts like damage and loss of properties, grievous hurt, temporary/permanent incapacitation, Murder, death, rape, gang rape, kidnapping, the outrage of modesty, etc. 
Note: Financial Assistance is provided in the bank accounts of the Victim or Family/Dependent of the Victim.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant must be a victim, or a family member/dependent of a victim, of an atrocity committed by non-Scheduled Caste persons.
The applicant must belong to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe community.
An FIR must be lodged under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Full Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and login through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can just search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Select your resident under ‘Resident Detail’ and enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and Click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their application through the official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering the Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID.
Documents Required
1. Identity/ Citizenship Proof (Any one of the following):
• Ration card
• Domicile Certificate
• Aadhaar
2. Resident Proof/Address Proof/Ownership Proof (Any one of the following):
• Ration Card
• Domicile Certificate
• Aadhaar Card
3. SC/ST Caste Certificate
4. Bank Passbook
5. Copy of FIR/ or Challan
6. Any other documents as required
