National Means-Cum-Merit Scholarship Scheme
Ministry of Education
Economically Weaker SectionsScholarship
Details
A scholarship scheme by the Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Education wherein 1,00,000 scholarships is offered to the gifted or meritorious students whose parental income is not more than ₹3,50,000/- per annum from all sources at the time of selection of awardees for a scholarship. Each State /UT has a fixed quota of scholarships for the concerned age group of class 7th and 8th. The scheme will provide reservations to different categories of students as per the State/UT norms; as different States/UTs have their own norms of reservation. The scholarship is being implemented since 2008 with an objective to award scholarships to meritorious students of economically weaker sections to arrest their drop out at class 8th and encourage them to continue their studies at the secondary stage. The scheme has been approved for continuation for another 5 years during the period of the 15th Finance Commission cycle from 2021-22 to 2025-26.

Benefits
Under this scheme, 1,00,000 fresh scholarships @ Rs. 12,000/- per annum (₹1,000 per month) are awarded to meritorious students every year at the Class IX level, which can be continued up to Class 12th.
The sanction of funds will be done from the Annual Budget Provision for releasing them to SBI, the implementing bank for the scheme for disbursal of scholarships, to students directly into their bank accounts by electronic transfer through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
The awardees will be required to open bank accounts preferably in SBI, any public sector bank, or any scheduled bank which has a core banking facility.
Eligibility
For Fresh Applications:
The parental income of the applicant (from all sources) should be ₹3,50,000 per annum.
The applicant must be studying as a regular student and entering class  9th in a government, Government-aided, local body school.
A separate examination shall be conducted by the State Governments/UT Administrations for the selection of students for the award of the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarships in the States/UTs. The students shall have a minimum of 55 % marks or equivalent grade in Class 7th examination for appearing in selection test conducted during class 8th for the award of scholarship (relaxable by 5% for SC/ST students).

Procedure for Selection of Awardee Students: 
Each State/UT will conduct its own test at the stage of class 8th for the selection of students. The State Level Examination may consist of the following two tests:
1)  Mental Ability Test (MAT), 90 minutes duration: 90 multiple-choice questions testing verbal and non-verbal meta-cognitive abilities like reasoning and critical thinking. The questions in the test may be on analogy. classification. numerical series, pattern perception, hidden figure, etc.
2)  Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), 90 minutes duration: 90 multiple-choice questions covering subjects namely, science, social studies, and mathematics as taught in classes 7th and 8th.

For selecting the students, the following conditions shall apply:
The students must pass both MAT and SAT with at least 40 % marks in aggregate taken together for these two tests. For the SC/ST students, this cut-off will be 32% marks.
At the time of selection for the award of scholarship, the student must have scored at least 55% mark or equivalent grade in the Class 8th examination. There will be 5 % relaxation for SC/ST students.
The awardees should satisfy the other eligibility conditions mentioned in the scheme.

Note:
An awardee is eligible for the scholarship provided he/she:
(i) takes up studies in approved courses.
(ii) maintains good conduct as certified by the Head of the College/Institution and continues his/her studies as a regular student in a government/Government aided/ Local Body school.
(iii) does not absent himself/herself without proper leave.
(iv) takes up studies on a whole-time basis.
The scheme will provide reservations to different categories of students as per the State/UT norms; as different States/UTs have their own norms of reservation.
A student can avail of only one Scholarship under any Central Government Scholarship scheme.
The awardees will be required to open bank accounts preferably in SBI, any public sector bank, or any scheduled bank which has a core banking facility.
No claim for scholarship arrears will be entertained after the expiry of 12 months of the academic session for which one has applied for the claim.
In case any awardee leaves his/her course of study within one month of registration/admission, no scholarship shall be paid to him/her.
In case the student is not able to appear at the annual examination due to serious illness, he/she should send the medical certificate to the Head of the Institution within three months of his/her falling ill. The duration of illness should be clearly certified by a specialist, who is a Registered Medical Practitioner. The facility will be available to the student to continue the same course in which one is studying provided the principal or the head of the institution certifies that the overall performance of the student during the year has been very good.
The student must join the next class/desired course within 3 months of the declaration of the result of the previous class/course.
The scholarship shall be deemed to be discontinued if any gap of one academic session arises in studies at any time due to any reason.
Scholarship once discontinued on the basis of the rules of disbursement of scholarship cannot be revived under any circumstances.
All rules are subject to change from time to time, as and when required, which will be binding on all awardees.

For Renewal Applications:
The awardees should get a minimum of 60% marks in Class 10th for the continuation of the scholarship (relaxable by 5% for SC/ST candidates) in the next higher classes. 
For continuing the scholarship in class 10th and 12th, the awardees should get clear promotion from class 9th to class 10th and from class 11th to class 12th in the first attempt.

Note:
The awardees should get clear promotion from class 8th to Class 9th for being eligible for starting the scholarship, as indicated above.
The scholarship at the Secondary and Higher Secondary stage or equivalent classes 9th to 12th is payable for a maximum period of four years for studies in India only.
For continuing the scholarship in class 10th and 12th, the awardees should get clear promotion from class 9th to class 10th and from class 11th to class 12th in the first attempt.
The awardees must obtain a minimum of 60% marks in the Class 10th examination (relaxable by 5% for SC/ST students) or equivalent examination for continuation of the scholarship at the higher secondary stage.
In case an institution/school does not conduct an examination at the end of Class 9th and/or Class 11th, the scholarship for the second year will be continued on the submission of a certificate to this effect from the Head of the Institution/School.
Application Process
Online
New Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the National Scholarships Portal.
Step 2: Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 3: A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory). Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number.
Fresh Application:
Step 1: Visit the applicant Login page of the National Scholarships Portal Enter your Application ID and password.
Step 2: Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
Step 3: On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm.
Step 4: Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 5: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. The verification of credentials of the students (caste, educational qualifications etc.) will be done through the DIGILOCKER facility of the MeitY, Govt. of India. 
Step 6: You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
Track Payment Status:
The student can track their payment status from the template “Know Your Payment” in the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) Portal either by indicating their Aadhaar Number, Bank Account number or NSP Application ID.
Documents Required
Class 7th mark sheet (only from government schools) (compulsory)
Caste Certificate
Income Certificate of Parents (compulsory)
Disability Certificate
Domicile Certificate
