Mukhyamantri Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Chhatra Yojana
Bihar
EmpowermentLocomotorPersons With DisabilitiesStudentTricycle
Details
The Government of Bihar, under the Directorate of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Social Welfare Department), is committed to the empowerment of persons with disabilities. "Mukhyamantri Divyangjan Sashaktikaran Chhatra Yojana" Umbrella Scheme, also known as the Sambal Yojana, aims to provide comprehensive support to the disabled community in Bihar. A significant component of this scheme involves the distribution of battery-operated tricycles to eligible beneficiaries to enhance their mobility and independence.

Benefits
Free distribution of battery-operated tricycles. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a locomotor-disabled student/employee.  
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Bihar.
The applicant's annual family income should not exceed ₹2,00,000/-.
The applicant's age should be 18 years or above. 
The applicant's minimum disability should be 60 percent. 
The student or employee must reside at least distance of 3 kilometers or more from their respective place of education or work.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1 : Applicant have to visit the official website and click on "Apply online"
Step-2 : Click on "Click here to register".
Step-3 : Fill out the required details and click on Register.
Step-4 :  Note down the user-id and password. 

Online Application
Step-1 : Applicant have to visit the official website and click on "Apply online"
Step-2 : Click on "Login" using the noted user-id and password.
Step-3 : Fill out the required details:
Personal Details
Upload : Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Validate  Email ID
Documents: Birth Certificate, Physically Handicapped Certificate, Residential Certificate, Income Certificate, Identity Card (College / University Campus / Place of Employment).
Finalize and submit application.
Documents Required
Photograph.
Income Certificate (issued by a Competent Authority).
Residential Certificate.
College/university ID card or 
Employment/business-related Certificate.
Recognized Disability Certificate.
