Divyang Pension Scheme
Uttarakhand
DisabilityDivyangFinancial AssistancePension
Details
“Divyang  Pension” scheme is a social security scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to the specially abled people of the state, who do not have any means of livelihood of their own or can not do any kind of hard work to sustain them.

Benefits
₹1,500/- per month to the beneficiaries.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant should be more than eighteen (18) years of age.
The applicant should belong to Person with Disabilities (PWD) category having more than 40% disability.
Applicant’s monthly income should not exceed ₹4,000/-.
Or,
Should belong to the BPL (Below Poverty Level ) category.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website then click on “Online Application” in the Menu Bar.
Step 2: Click on “Submit New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step 4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information.
Step 5: After saving the application form, the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step 6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords .
Step 7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step 8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step 9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step 10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
 Track Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website on your Mobile or Laptop/ Computer.
Step 2: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step 3: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.
Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update.
Helpdesk:
Toll Free Number: 8004804236
What’s App Mobile Number: 6395221188
Landline Number:
035-26742
035-267422
035-2669764
Email ID:
swditcell@gmail.com
itcell-ewd-uik@nic.in
Documents Required
BPL certificate or income certificate issued by the Tahsildar (Monthly income not exceeding ₹4,000/-).
Proposal for open meeting of Gram Sabha.
Copy of family register.
Aadhaar card.
Copy of Savings Bank account.
Latest photograph of the applicant.
Disability Certificate (exceeding 40%) issued by the Chief Medical Officer or Unique Disability ID (UDID) Card. (Click here to apply for UDID Card).
Note:
The applicant's name in the application form must be the same as the applicant's name in the Aadhaar card and the name in the passbook.
The applicant's information such as scheme, district, area, tehsil, block, panchayat, village, city, ward cannot be updated by the applicant. 
Do not mention the applicant joint/ loan bank account in the application form.
