Kisan Pension Yojana
Uttarakhand
EmpowermentFarmerUttarakhand
Details
The Kisan Pension Yojana, implemented by the Department of Social Welfare of Uttarakhand, provides financial assistance in the form of monthly pension to eligible farmers. This scheme supports old age farmers, who owning up to 02 hectares of land and cultivate their own land and do not receive any other pension. This initiative to ensure financial security for the elderly farming community in Uttarakhand.

Benefits
Monthly pension of ₹1,200/- (one thousand two hundred).
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant's age should be more than 60 years.
The applicant should not get pension benefits from any other sources.
The Applicant should have a maximum of 2 hectares of land and do farming on the same.
Application Process
Online
Apply for Scheme: 
Step -1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step -2: Click on “New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step -3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step -4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information.
Step -5: After saving the application form, the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step -6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords.
Step -7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step -8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking the Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step -9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step -10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.

Track Application:
Step -1: Visit the Official Website of the Department Of Social Welfare.
Step -2: Click on Check your pension status in the menu item.
Step -3: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step -4: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.

Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Land Documents.
Aadhaar Card of the applicant farmer.
Age certificate.
The land related affidavit will have to be submitted on stamp paper of Rs.10.
Address proof.
Photocopy of the first page of bank account for bank account details.
Passport size colour photo.
Caste certificate.
 Voter ID card.
