ICMR- Post Doctoral Fellowship
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
FellowshipICMRPDFPost DoctoralResearch
Details
ICMR- Post Doctoral Fellowship (ICMR-PDF) Scheme is being instituted to foster high-quality research opportunities for promising fresh Ph.D./MD/MS holders in the cutting-edge areas of basic science, communicable and non-communicable diseases, and reproductive health including nutrition at ICMR Institutes /Centers. Special focus will be on fundamental research in areas of science and other priority areas identified by ICMR from time to time. ICMR intends to offer fifty (50) such fellowships every year for working in ICMR Institutes/Centers with state-of-the-art R&D facilities. These fellowships will be allocated by the Director General, ICMR, depending upon the needs of the ICMR Institute/Centre.
Tenure:
Two years only and extendable for a maximum of one more year based on outstanding performance and recommendations by the Director/Officer-in-Charge of the concerned ICMR Institutes/Centers.
In the event of the PDF leaving before completing one year, he/she will have to refund the fellowship drawn by him/her from the date of joining to the date of leaving the fellowship.

Benefits
ICMR-PDFs will be paid a consolidated fellowship of ₹65,000/- per month plus House Rent Allowance (HRA) as per Govt. of India rule and Non-Practicing allowance (NPA) as admissible.
There is a contingency grant of ₹3,00,000/- per annum.
25% of the contingency grant can be used for travel including per diem expenses (only for National travel, related to ICMR-PDF proposed research work only).
Note: Fellowship amount will be paid to ICMR institutes/centres every six months including contingency grant.
Accommodation and other benefits:
Accommodation may be provided by ICMR Institutes/Centers, if available. However, in such cases, HRA will not be paid.
ICMR-PDFs will be entitled to medical benefits and leave as per the ICMR rules for JRF/Research Associates.
Eligibility
ICMR-PDF is open to Indian nationals only.
Fresh PhDs/MD/MS within three years of completing their Ph.D./MD/MS degree (awarded) as on the last date of the application and also those who have received their provisional Ph.D./MD/MS degree can apply.
The Post-Doctoral proposed research work should be the continuation of the Ph.D. or MD/MS research work. If not, then the application will not be considered.
The maximum age limit is 32 years, relaxable up to 5 years in case of SC/ST/OBC/PH and women candidates, as on the last date of application.
For deserving candidates age can be relaxed maximum up to a maximum of 3 years based on earlier work done, publications, awards, etc. along with the request by the sponsoring Director/Director-in-Charge. Director General, ICMR may consider and relax on the recommendation of the screening committee.
The PDF Guide should have the minimum designation of Scientist-C grade.
Postgraduate medical students are also permitted to carry out ICMR’s PDF in MCI-recognized postgraduate medical colleges wherein a minimum of three batches have obtained their postgraduate degrees.
Note 01: Result notification/certificate or Viva-voce/Thesis submitted notification will not be considered.
Note 02: It is mandatory to submit the Plagiarism check report along with the declaration to be submitted to ICMR along with the PDF proposal and application.
Note 03: A list of ICMR Institutes/Centers and their niche Areas/R&D activities are available on the ICMR website.
Application Process
Offline
Last Date of Application (30th June and 31st December Every Year)
Step 01: Eligible candidates can visit the official website of ICMR and download the application form.
Step 02: Fill out the application form completely and sign as required.
Step 03: No column of the application form should be left blank. Kindly write NA/Nil as applicable.
Step 04: Use additional sheets where necessary, with relevant columns drawn thereon, inserting proper references.
Step 05: The completed application should be accompanied by all the requisite documents and attach self-attested photocopies of all documents as required.
Step 06:  Applications duly filled in the prescribed format and complete in all respects should be sent to:
Director General
Attention:
Sh. Kishor Toppo, Technical Officer-C, Division of Human Resource Development,
Indian Council of Medical Research Headquarters, Ansari Nagar, New Delhi-110029
Email : toppok.hq@icmr.gov.in, mpdicmr@gmail.com
Note 01: Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected.
Note 02: Applications complete in all respects must reach on or before the closing date (as mentioned above).
Note 03: Candidates are advised to contact the Director/Officer-in-Charge of ICMR Institutes/Centers where they are interested in pursuing their PDF.
Note 04: Applicants can visit the website of the particular ICMR Institute/Center to know the activities of the Institutes/Centers and their mandates.
Note 05: Applications received without the recommendation of the Director /Officer-in-charge of the sponsoring ICMR institutes/centers will not be considered.
Mode of Selection:
The selection of the “ICMR Centenary Post Doctoral Fellows” will be made through the interview of short-listed candidates by a specially constituted Selection Committee by DG, ICMR based on their publications, citations, and impact factors.
The place of the interview will be ICMR Hqrs. New Delhi.
Eligible candidates must route their applications through the sponsoring ICMR Institutes/ Centers. Applicants coming from abroad may also be considered in absentia, if eligible and found suitable by the Committee.
Documents Required
1. Passport-size Photograph
2. Attested copy of School Leaving/ High School/Secondary School Certificate (for date of birth)
3. Attested copies of Mark Sheets/Grade Cards & Degrees
4. Attested copy of the Caste certificate, if applicable
5. Reprints of publications
6. One-page summary of Ph.D. thesis
7. Attested copies of Letter(s) of Acceptance for paper(s) accepted for publication & pre-prints
8. Detailed research proposal
9. Testimonials from two Referees (One should be Ph.D. Guide)
10. Plagiarism Check Report verified by ICMR-RIO
