Jagananna Amma Vodi
Andhra Pradesh
Financial AssistanceScholarshipStudent
Details
Launched on 9th January 2020 by Hon'ble Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy, the scheme "Jagananna Amma Vodi" provides poor mothers (or recognized guardian in the absence of mother) ₹15,000/- per annum for sending their children to school. The scheme is managed by the School Education Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to enhance access to schools, ensure equity, assuring quality education, improve attendance, and retention, achieve better learning outcomes, and for the overall development of the child from Classes 1st to 12th. The scheme is expected to lead to a strong foundation for the increase in the overall Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) at the primary and secondary levels of education of the state including Higher Education and framed Guidelines for implementation of the program. 

Benefits
The eligible mothers/guardians will be sanctioned ₹ 14000/- which will be deposited directly into the beneficiaries’ savings account of the Nationalized Bank / Post Office in January every year until the child passes Class 12th.
An amount of ₹ 1000/- from each beneficiary shall be deducted at the source and released to School/College Committee as District Toilet Maintenance Fund (DTMF) under the control of the District Collector.
Eligibility
The mother/guardian should be a resident of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The child/children of the mother should be studying in Class 1st to Class 12th.
The school/college in which the child is admitted/enrolled should be a recognized Government, Private Aided, and Private Unaided School/Jr. College or Residential School/Jr.College in the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The scheme is applicable from the Academic Year 2019-20.
The Total Family Income should be less than ₹ 10,000/- per month in the case of Rural Areas; and ₹ 12,000/- per month in the case of Urban Areas (BPL).
No family member of the child should be a Government Employee or Government Pensioner. (except in the case of families of sanitary workers).
The family of the applicant should not own a four-wheeler (except for Taxis, Tractors, and Autos).
The monthly electricity consumption of a family dwelling unit (owned/rented) of the applicant should be below 300 units (six months average).
No family member of the applicant should be an income tax payee.
The land under the municipal area should be less than 1000 sq. ft.
The attendance of the child should at least be 75%.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The details of the student submitted by the School Headmaster / Inter College Principal with regard to student enrolment as per the given proforma consisting of Name, age, parent name, Caste (General, SC, ST, BCs, Minority), Disabled Children, etc. shall be the single source of data.

Step 2: The details shall be cross-validated using the 6-Step Check and with Childinfo/UDISE data and other data of Civil Supplies and other departments. The immediate inspecting officer of that institution should certify those details for payment.

Step 3: The Provisional List of Eligible Candidates shall be displayed in the village/ward secretariat for Social Audit. From the Social Audit, the list of Ineligible Candidates shall be prepared along with the reason(s) for ineligibility. The communication reg. the rejection should be sent to the candidate.

Step 4: The final list of Eligible Candidates shall be prepared by the Welfare Education Assistant / Ward Education & Data Processing Secretary. The list shall then be approved by the District Collector. The e-KYC of the mother shall be done through Biometric by the Volunteers / Welfare Education Assistant / Ward Education & Data Processing Secretary.

Step 5: Thereafter the concerned District Educational Officers /District Vocational Educational Officer/Regional Educational Officer, Intermediate Education should release financial assistance to the savings bank account of the beneficiaries online.

Step 6: The Volunteers / Welfare Education Assistant / Ward Education & Data Processing Secretary shall get the acknowledgment from the mothers' reg. the receipt of the payment through biometric authentication.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
White Ration Card
Proof of Address such as the Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card, Electricity Bill, etc.
Name of the school where the child is studying
Bank account details of the mother or the guardian
Passport size photo of the mother
School's identity card to confirm that the student studies in the said school
