Micro Finance Scheme- Credit Line 2 for Minority Community
Haryana
Credit LineLoanMicro FinanceMinority CommunitySHG
Details
The scheme "Micro Finance Scheme- Credit Line 2 for Minority Community" is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam to fulfill the requirement of small loans for the poor. Under the scheme, small loans of ₹1,50,000/- per beneficiary are provided to members of Self-Help Groups (SHGs), either directly or through the SHGs. Applicants must be permanent residents of Haryana and belong to minority communities such as Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, and Jains.

Benefits
This scheme provides small loans of ₹1,50,000/- per beneficiary to the members of Self-Help Groups (SHGs), either directly or through the SHGs.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 and 55 years.
The annual family income of the applicant should be between ₹98,001/- to ₹8,00,000/- (Rural Area) and ₹1,20,001/- to ₹8,00,000/- (Urban Area).
The applicant should belong to a minority community, i.e., Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Parsis, and Jains.
In an SHG 75% of members can be from Minority Communities and the remaining 25% members may be from other weaker sections like SC/Handicapped/Minorities etc. in very exceptional cases, groups with up to 60% members belonging to Minority Communities will also be eligible.
The applicant should have a Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID).
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
Identity/Citizenship proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Proof of age
Resident Proof/Address Proof/Ownership Proof i.e. Haryana Domicile Certificate
Caste/Religion/Community Proof 
Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP ID)
Copy of PAN Card
Passport-size photograph of the applicant
Bank account details
Any other documents as required
