Saraswati Vidya Yojana: Free Distribution of Bicycles
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
BicyclesGirlsSchoolSocial EmpowermentStudent
Details
“Free Distribution of Bicycles'' under the “Saraswati Vidya Yojana”has been implemented by the Directorate of Education, U.T. Administration Of DNH & DD. Under this scheme, bicycles are provided free of cost to all the girl students, studying in class VIII(8) each year in the Govt. & Govt. aided schools/ Institutes of the U.T. Administration.
Objective of the "Saraswati Vidya Yojana”:
The UT Administration of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu has launched “Saraswati Vidya Yojana”  on 25th February, 2021, for the girl students of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. The scheme aims to encourage girl students to continue education keeping in view the aim of:- “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao”.
Objective of the "Free Distribution of Bicycles" Sub-scheme:
The objective of the scheme is to retain the girl students at Secondary & Higher Secondary stage and thereby decreasing the Dropout of the girl students by providing Bicycles to the girl students of class VIII to commute to school.

Benefits
Bicycles will be provided to all the girl students.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a girl.
The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should be studying in class VIII(8) in Government and Government Aided School of the UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu.
Application Process
Offline
The Head Master/ In-charge Head Master will provide the number of enrolment of Girls in Std. VIII in Government and Government Aided Schools to the District Education Office.
Note:
The girl student does not required to make any application individually.
Bicycles will be provided to schools at the time of commencement of the New Academic Year as per the requirement of the respective schools.
Contact for Grievance Redressal:
Dadra and Nagar Haveli Daman Diu
District Education Office (Silvassa), PWD Campus, Silvassa, Pin: 396230, Ph: 0260-2642098, Email: doe-dnh@nic.in District Education (Daman) Fort Area, Daman, Pin: 396220, Ph: 0260 2231126, Email: diredu-dd @nic.in District Education Office (Diu), Collectorate, Diu, Pin: 362520, Ph: 02875-252199, Email: edn-diu@yahoo.in
Documents Required
Identity Proof of the student.
Any other document as required.
