Additional Pension to Widow of Ex-Serviceman having Children
Haryana
Additional PensionEx-ServicemanSainikWidow
Details
The scheme "Additional Pension to Widow of Ex-Serviceman having Children" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, an additional amount, in addition to the pension, is provided to the widow of an ex-serviceman who dies while in service but not in any battle. This additional amount is given for up to three children and continues until the child dies, reaches the age of 20 years, gets married, or becomes employed, whichever is the earliest. The additional pension will be reduced proportionately as a child dies or attains the age of 20 years or gets married or gets employed.

Benefits
The rates of additional pension admissible under the scheme are as follows:
Sl. No. Category Additional Pension Amount
1 Other Ranks ₹100/- per child per month subject to a maximum of ₹300/-
2 JCO’s ₹150/- per child per month subject to a maximum of ₹450/-
3 Officers ₹200/- per child per month subject to a maximum of ₹600/- 
Mode of Payment:
Each Secretary of District Sainik Board will make payment of additional pension on a quarterly basis by money order or in cash, as may be convenient.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the widow of an ex-serviceman. A ‘widow’ means the widow of a member of the Armed Forces whose death has taken place while in service but not in any battle.
The widow should be a resident of Haryana.
The benefit is provided for up to three children of the widow.
The benefit continues until the child dies, attains the age of 20 years, gets married, or becomes employed, whichever is the earliest.
Note 1: Every eligible widow shall give a certificate of eligibility on a half-yearly basis, in Form III and send it to the concerned Secretary of the District Sainik Board so as to reach them within the months of June and December every year.
Note 2: As and when one or more children of the eligible person die or reach the age of 20 years or get married or secure employment, it shall be responsibility of the eligible widow to inform the Secretary of the District Sainik Board in this regard.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined Affidavit form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 5: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
Copy of Ex-servicemen /Widow of Ex-servicemen Identity Card
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Original Discharge Book of Ex-serviceman
Domicile Certificate of Haryana
Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar Card
Applicant’s Photo ID Proof (Ration Card/Driving Licence/ Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
P.P.O
Aadhaar Card
Affidavit
Any other documents as required
