Sanctioning of Touch Phone to Hearing Challenged – Speech Impaired
Andhra Pradesh
EmpowermentHearing ChallengedSocial Welfare
Details
The A.P. Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation, Andhra Pradesh, "Sanctioning of Touch Phone to Hearing Challenged – Speech Impaired" under its action Plan 2017-18, aims to provide touch phones to hearing challenged – speech impaired individuals who know sign language. The touch phones are distributed by the Assistant Directors, Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled & Senior Citizens, and District Managers, A.P. Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation.

Benefits
Distribution of Touch Phones. 
Category I: Parent/Guardian income up to ₹15,000/- per month – full cost covered.
Category II: Parent/Guardian income from ₹15,001 to ₹20,000/- per month – half of the cost covered.
Category III: Parent/Guardian income above ₹20,000/- per month – full cost to be borne by the beneficiary.
Eligibility
The applicant's age should be 18 years and above. 
The applicant should be hearing challenged and speech impaired. 
The applicant should know the sign language (can communicate directly with each other i.e., two persons).
The applicant must be able to use video relay service (VRS) to facilitate communication with non-signing individuals, with an interpreter at VRS acting as the intermediary.
The applicant should be any one of the following:
Student.
Self-Employed
Un-Employed.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The interested student needs to visit the official website. 
Step 02: Click on the "Online Applications" on the home page. 
Step 03: Select the category "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" 
Step 04: Now click on "Apply Online" respect to the scheme name.
Step 05: And confirm your registration. 

If applicant was not register earlier
Step 06: Answer the above registration question as "No". 
Step 07: Fill in your Aadhaar card name, Aadhaar number, Mobile number, email ID.
Step 08: Create a new password for this application.
Step 09: Click on "Register" After that get the registration number.

After the registration
Step 10: Click here to Login.
Step 11: Again, ask the same "Are you registered already: Yes/No Select "Yes".
Step 12: Enter email/mobile number and password.
Step 13: Click on "Login" and select the category again "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" .
Step 14: Fill out the application form for personal employment and disability detail.
Step 15: Click on "Submit".
Documents Required
Self-declaration (Never received the Touch Phone in any other District). 
Income Certificate. 
Saderam/Disability Certificate.
Aadhaar Card.
Mobile/Cell Number.
