H.P. Swaran Jayanti Middle Merit Scholarship Scheme
Himachal Pradesh
Class VScholarshipSchoolStudent
Details
The scheme “H.P. Swaran Jayanti Middle Merit Scholarship Scheme" for Govt. Schools was launched by the Department of Elementary Education, Government of Himachal Pradesh for students studying in Class V is meant to identify the talent and nurture it at an early stage. The meritorious students for the award of benefits under the scheme will be selected through a state-level examination. The examination will be conducted every year at the state level by the SCERT, Solan (H.P.). A total of 100 scholarships can be distributed among twelve districts of the State, determining the district quota based on an average of the last three years' enrollment in class five (as per UDISE data of the latest three years) of the Government Schools in the State. The main objective of this scheme is to select Top 100 Students for scholarship after passing class Vth.
Important Dates: 
Tentative dates for submission of the application form and conduct of examination etc. are given below:
Sl. No. Important Dates Date
1 Date of advertisement for the examination Will be fixed by SCERT
2 Date of applying for creation of login ID of Primary Schools for the examination Will be fixed by SCERT
3 Last Date of Submission Will be fixed by SCERT
4 Date of Issuing of Roll Number Will be fixed by SCERT
5 Date of Examination First Sunday of the month of November 
6 Declaration of Result In the month of December
The pattern of Examination: 
The state-level examination will comprise one test of 100 marks consisting of 100 multiple-choice questions of one mark each. The question paper will cover mental ability tests, scholastic aptitude tests, and language tests with the following distribution of marks:
Sl. No. Question Paper Number of Questions
1 Mental Ability test 40 questions
2 Environment Science Scholastic Aptitude Test 20 questions
3 Mathematics 20 questions
4 Language Test

Hindi 10 questions

English 10 questions
Mental Ability Test: 
It will be for testing verbal and non-verbal Metacognitive abilities like reasoning and critical thinking. The question in the test may be on analogy, classification, numerical series, pattern perception, hidden figures, etc.
Scholastic Aptitude Test: 
It will cover subjects mainly Mathematics & Environment Science as taught up to 5th Class in the Govt. Schools of the State.
Language Test: 
It will test the general understanding of Hindi and English language according to the curriculum of Class 1 to Class 5 of the Govt. Primary Schools in Himachal Pradesh.
Duration of Examination: 
The test will be of two & half hours (150 minutes) in duration. Children with a disability may be given half an hour of extra time.
Process of examination: 
The centers of examination, important dates, and other details regarding the examination for the scholarship scheme will be notified through advertisements in daily newspapers. The information will also be available on the official website of SCERT, Solan (H.P.). SCERT will prepare and print the question paper and OMR sheets for the examination.
Note: There will be no negative marking in the examination.

Benefits
The selected students may be eligible for the scholarship as given below:
Scholarship Amount  ₹4000/- per month (for 12 months, in 6th class)
Scholarship Amount  ₹5000/- per month (for 12 months, in 7th class)
Scholarship Amount  ₹6000/- per month (for 12 months, in 8th class)
Note: The period of the scholarship shall be for three years (Class 6th to Class 8th).
Eligibility
All the students studying in Class 5th as regular students in the Government Schools are eligible to apply for the State Level examination to be conducted by the SCERT, Solan (H.P.).
Note 01: The student must continue to study in the Government School of H.P. Govt. without repeating any class for continuity of scholarship.
Note 02: It would be mandatory for the student to have at least 75% attendance during the session for which he/she is to be awarded the Scholarship.
Note 03: In genuine cases of acute illness or any medical exigency, subject to verification by the Medical Board, a condition of 75% attendance will not be applicable.
Application Process
Offline
All the interested eligible students may contact their Class Teacher in the school and collect the application form for the scholarship scheme.
The eligible students may fill the forms and submit well in time.
The class teacher of the school may obtain the application form from the website of HP State Council of Educational Research and Training.
All the complete application form for examination will be submitted to the CHT of the school much before the last date of submission. The CHT will verify the documents, eligibility and details of the applicant.
After confirmation of the details of the applicant on online portal, the CHTs will be able to download and print the admit cards of the candidates with technical support from BRC (Primary).
The class teacher will collect the admit card for their respective students from CHTs. Further, the admit cards will be given to the respective students and the students may appear in the exam on scheduled date & time.
Result:
SCERT will prepare the result and merit list within a month after the examination is over following the quota of scholarships per district based on their enrollment in 5th class of the Government Schools in H.P.
Award of Scholarship:
As soon as the result is declared by the SCERT, the benefit will be released in favor of the candidate, in his Bank account through e.vitaran or any mode as per the directions issued by the Government, from time to time. The scholarship may be disbursed to the meritorious students by the SCERT.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. School ID Card etc.
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Disability certificate (If applicable)
Educational Documents
Passport-size photograph
Any other documents as asked by the school authority
