Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana
Jharkhand
AgricultureCrop LossFarmerNatural Calamity
Details
The "Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana" was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry & Cooperative, Government of Jharkhand. This scheme is mainly to provide financial assistance to the farmers in the event of crop damage due to any natural calamity and natural accidents. The scheme is not a crop insurance scheme but a compensation scheme provided to farmers in case of crop damage. This will fulfill the objective of providing security coverage to farmers in case of crop loss due to natural calamities and providing a certain financial assistance. This scheme will cover both the land owner and the landless farmer. Farmers will not need to pay any kind of crop insurance premium under this scheme and they will be provided financial assistance directly by the government in the event of crop loss.
Objective:
To provide financial assistance to farmers affected by crop damage due to unforeseen natural calamities or events.
To strengthen the income of the farmers to continue the agricultural work.
Ensuring financial flow for agricultural work.
To pave the way for food security, crop diversification, rapid growth, and competition in agriculture.
The following types of natural calamities, which may affect the crop, will be included in this scheme:
Flood and Water Logging
Earthquake
Volcanic Eruption
Landslide
Drought or dry winds (if drought has not been declared by the State Government)
Widespread Epidemic
Naturally Caught Fire
Thunderstorm
Storm
Torrential Rain
Cyclone
The following risks will not be considered under the scheme:
Losses caused by war/nuclear risks,
Malicious losses and other preventable risks, such as unscientific farming practices by farmers etc.
Loss due to attack by wild animals (Under this, the loss caused to the crop will be covered under the schemes of Forest, Environment and Climate Change Department, Government of Jharkhand).

Benefits
Under this scheme, assured financial assistance is provided to eligible farmers in the event of crop loss occurring due to natural calamity.
In the event of 30-50% loss: ₹3,000/- per acre maximum upto 5 acres
In the event of >50% loss: ₹4,000/- per acre maximum upto 5 acres
Note 1: Both Kharif (Paddy & Maize) and Rabi (Wheat, Mustard, Gram, and Potato) season crops are covered under this scheme.
Note 2: No intermediary role of insurance companies and no premiums are required to be paid by applicant farmers.
Note 3: Loss estimation through data of Crop Cutting Experiment.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Jharkhand.
The applicant should be a small or marginal farmer.
The applicant should be a ‘Raiyat’ or ‘Bataidaar’ farmer.
The age of the farmer should be at least 18 years.
The farmer should have a valid Aadhaar Number.
Farmers cultivating on government or non-majorua land with lease or settlement documents from the Revenue Department are also eligible.
The farmer should possess requisite land papers (LPC/Land Receipts).
Farmers can avail benefits for agricultural land ranging from a minimum of 10 decimals to a maximum of 5 acres under the scheme.
Crop assistance will be provided to farmers only in case of crop loss of at least 20%.
This scheme will be voluntary for all farmers.
Note: Under the scheme, special efforts will be made to ensure maximum coverage of SC/ST/Women/Paharia Tribe/Primitive Tribe farmers.
Application Process
Online
Online - Via CSCs
Registration Process:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the “Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana” to apply under the scheme.
Step 2: On the home page, click on ‘Farmer Registration’ and enter your Name, Aadhaar Number, Mobile Number, Captcha, and then click on ‘Get OTP’.
Step 3: After receiving the OTP, enter it to complete your registration.
Login to apply under the scheme:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the “Jharkhand Rajya Fasal Rahat Yojana”.
Step 2: Navigate to the ‘Registration’ section on the homepage and click on ‘Application’.
Step 3: Choose either your Aadhaar Number or Mobile Number for login, then select the Crop Season, enter your Aadhaar Number or Mobile Number, and provide your password and captcha before clicking ‘login’.
Step 4: Your basic information such as name, date of birth, and address will be displayed.
Step 5: Review all displayed information carefully, enter the captcha, and click on "Next".
Step 6: Upload the required ‘Declaration’ and other necessary documents.
Step 7: Re-check all entered information and uploaded documents to ensure accuracy.
Step 8: Upon submission, you will receive a confirmation slip confirming your application.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Proof of age
Bank account details/bank passbook
Land papers (LPC/Land Receipts/ Vansawali)/Bandobasti Patta issued by Circle Office
Sahmati Patra from Raiyat in case the applicant is a Bataidaar Farmer
Complete details of selected crops for sowing along with land area
Other necessary documents if required
