Bhargava Matching Scheme
Andhra Pradesh
Brahmin CommunityFinancial AssistanceOrganizationSkill Development
Details
The "Bhargava Matching Scheme" was launched by the Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation. The scheme aims to catalyse, energize and strengthen the efforts of Individuals or groups of individuals or an association or an organization representing Brahmin Community.  The funds will be utilized for creating permanent Assets viz. Andhra Kesari Bhavan (Community Hall), Viswanadha Aarama Kshetram, Brahmin Old Age Homes, or any socially relevant activity for the community to meet the needs of beneficiaries in the areas of Education, Coaching, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship, Healthcare, Food and Shelter, etc., within the framework and policies of ABC Ltd.

Benefits
Financial Support: Provides matching funds to double the community's financial contributions.
Community Development: Enhances the overall development and strengthening of the Brahmin community by creating essential facilities.
Encourages Philanthropy: Fosters a culture of giving within the Brahmin community.
Permanent Assets Creation: Supports the construction of long-term infrastructure like community halls and old age homes.
Educational and Skill Development: Funds projects in education and skill development, improving employability.
Entrepreneurship Support: Promotes economic self-reliance and innovation within the community.
Healthcare and Welfare: Improves overall well-being by funding healthcare, food, and shelter projects.
Eligibility
Individuals, groups of individuals, associations, or organizations representing the Brahmin community can participate in this scheme.
The society/trust must prepare cost estimates for construction projects or a detailed project report for socially relevant activities.
The society/trust must open a separate bank account and deposit 50% of the estimated project cost.
Application Process
Online
Registration and apply
Step 01: Applicants have to visit the official website(https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/schemes/schemes.aspx#) and click on "Scheme"
Step 02: Click on "Registration" After that application form will open
Step 03: Fill out the required details:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-4: After submission receive the reference number. 

Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step 02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step 03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step 01: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip"
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme"
Step 03: Click on the "Submit"
Documents Required
For Asset Construction:
Passport-size Photo of a representative of the Society/Trust (in JPG format).
Registration Certificate of the Society/Trust.
Bye-laws/Trust Deed.
Title deed of land, Possession Certificate, and Photo of the land.
Project Report along with cost estimation statement for the construction of an asset.
Bank A/c Passbook of Society/Trust with 50% cost deposited.

For Socially Relevant Activity:
Passport-size Photo of a representative of the Society/Trust (in JPG format).
Registration Certificate of the Society/Trust.
Bye-laws/Trust Deed.
The nature of the project (Brief write-up).
A letter from the organization intending to undertake the project.
Project Report along with cost estimation statement and outcomes expected from the proposed project.
Bank A/c Passbook of Society/Trust with 50% cost deposited.
