Skill Development for the Construction Workers
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourSkill Development
Details
The "Skill Development for the Construction Workers" by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board will provide financial assistance in the form of stipend to the workers who attend the training programs and skill development activities to the workers who have registered with the BOCW Board under “Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana”.

Benefits
Assistance for Skilled Category: Minimum Wages for skilled category.
Incentive Amount: ₹5,000/- as incentive amount.
Other Allowance: Travelling allowance (Bus-Pass).
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in any building or other construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered member under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
The applicant should be enrolled under "Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana".
The applicant should attend the training programs of "Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana".
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Application for registration is to be made in the prescribed form and is to be accompanied by prescribed documents and a fee of not more than ₹50/-.
Step 2: Application for registration has to be made to the officer authorized by the Board on this behalf.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: A registered worker should request a prescribed format for the application from the officer authorized by the Board and should  attach all the mandatory documents (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Member Secretary (BOCWWB) for this benefit.
Helpdesk:
BOCW Department:
EMAIL ID: labour-dnh@nic.in
PHONE NUMBER : 0260 - 2642374
ADDRESS:
Old Circuit House Building,
Opposite Bal Bhawan, Silvassa,
Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Pin:- 396230
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Photographs of the concerned worker.
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
Attested copy of Address Proof.
Details of the establishment where the applicant is working.
Proof regarding Submission of Registration fees.
Any other document as required.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Applicant ID Proof.
Any other document as required.
