Education Development Scholarship for Single Girl Child
Madhya Pradesh
EducationScholarshipSingle Girl ChildStudent
Details
The "Education Development Scholarship for Single Girl Child" scheme was launched by the School Education Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh, aims to ensure the continuity of education for girl students who are the only daughters of their parents. Under this scheme, eligible girl students who are the only child of their parents and have passed the 10th class examination with at least 60% marks receive a scholarship of ₹5,000/- per year.

Benefits
Under the scheme, a scholarship of ₹5,000/- per year is given to single girl child students.
Note: The scholarship will be deposited directly into the student's bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a girl student.
The applicant should be the only girl child of her parents.
The girl student should be a permanent resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The girl student should have scored 60% or more marks in the 10th class examination under the curriculum of the Madhya Pradesh Secondary Education Board.
The girl should be studying in Class 11 or 12 at a recognized private school.
The school tuition fees should be less than ₹1,500/- per month.
The girl student should have passed the previous class.
Note 1: If the parents are government employees, a certificate from the head of the office confirming the applicant is the only child or an attested copy of the family list in the ration card, is required.
Note 2: If the parents are not government employees, an affidavit from a notary confirming the applicant is the only child, or an attested copy of the ration card, is required.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits under this scheme, eligible girl students can contact the Principal of their respective schools/institutions.
Note: The student's profile is entered on the education portal https://shikshaportal.mp.gov.in/ by the teacher of the educational institution as per the record/certificate provided by the student.
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Aadhaar card
Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
Single child certificate/document
Ration Card
Mark sheet of class 10th/11th 
Samagra ID
Bank Passbook
Any other documents as required
