Mukhyamantri Vidwa Evam Ekal Naari Awas Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
Financial AssistanceHousingWidowWomen
Details
The "Mukhyamantri Vidwa Evam Ekal Naari Awas Yojana" was launched by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Himachal Pradesh. The scheme aims to provide financial grants for the construction of houses to economically weak widows and single women. Under this scheme, eligible applicants, who are permanent residents of the state will receive financial assistance for constructing a house. 

Benefits
An assistance amount of ₹1,50,000/- will be given for the construction of the house.
Eligibility
A widow or a single woman should be a permanent resident of Himachal Pradesh.
The single woman's age should be 40 years or above. 
The applicant should not have a private residence or house in a dilapidated condition.
The applicant's annual family income from all sources does not exceed ₹3,00,000/-. 
The applicant should have at least 02 Biswa of land registered in the revenue records for construction of house or in whose favor land has been made available by the government.
The applicant's family should not receive government assistance for the construction of a house, or the accommodation has not been approved under any other scheme. 
The grant amount will be approved only once in 10 years provided that the house has not been destroyed due to a natural disaster.
Preference will be given to widows and single women on the basis of the following preference: -
Whose houses were destroyed due to natural calamities like fire, flood, earthquake, etc
Suffers from more than 40 percent disability. 
All other eligible candidates.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant downloads the application form Annexure-1. 
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Chief Minister / Chief Minister's office.
Step 4: Request a receipt (Annexure-3) or acknowledgment from the Chief Minister / Chief Minister's office to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).

Grant Disbursal:
Before payment of the grant amount, the beneficiary will have to give an undertaking on the prescribed form Annexure-4.
Documents Required
Widow/Single Women Certificate (issued by an authorized officer).
Annual Income Certificate (issued by an authorized officer).
Ownership Rights Certificate (issued by the competent authority as per Annexure-2 regarding the ownership rights of the applicant over the land on which the house is to be constructed).
No Objection Certificate (issued by the Panchayat Secretary/Urban Secretary that the applicant has not received assistance for housing construction from any other department).
Permanent Resident Certificate of Himachal (issued by an authorized officer).
Copy of Aadhaar Card.
Copy of Bank Account Passbook.
Undertaking Form.
