Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Excellence in Sports Journalism
Odisha
AwardJournalismSports
Details
The “Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Excellence in Sports Journalism” is a category of award under the “Biju Patnaik Sports Award" Scheme. The scheme was launched by the Sports & Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to commemorate the yeoman service of late Biju Patnaik, the ex-Chief Minister of Odisha, towards the development of Sports & Games in the State by conferring the highest honor of the Government of Odisha in the field of Sports in his name. 
The objective of the scheme is to encourage the development of Sports and Games in the State. The award is given to the journalists who have done significant work in the sphere of journalism for the promotion and popularization of sports and games as well as fighting for the causes of sports and sportspersons in the State of Odisha.
Sports Journalist: Sports reporter, Journalist (Mobile or desk) of a major daily newspaper, or magazine. 
Accredited Journalists: A journalist who has been granted accreditation under the Rule "The Odisha Press Accreditation (Constitution Rules-1994 notified on 31st January 1994 Resolution in I & P.R. Department Govt. of Odisha) and includes accredited Sports & Photo Journalist and awarded from time to time.
Freelance Reporter of Print media and/or Electronic media operating within the State of Odisha (As per the eligibility criteria under the resolution (Para-2 (I) of the I& P.R. Department of Government of Odisha.
Photo Journalist/Cameraman-Cum-Correspondent: A cameraman representing a newspaper, News Photo Agency, or TV news Unit (as per the eligibility criteria under resolution (Para-2 (i) & P.R. Department)

Benefits
The award shall be presented every year subject to the availability of suitable candidates, which will carry a cash award of ₹1,00,000/-.
A statue, a scroll of honor, and a blazer with a tie shall be given along with all the Cash Awards.
The Awardees shall be invited to receive the awards in person. They shall be given T.A. and D.A. at the rate admissible to a Grade 'A' Officer.
Note:
Canvassing for the award in any form is prohibited.
The award can also be given posthumously to the next of kin of the awardee.
In case of selection of more than one person for an award, the award money will be shared amongst the awardees.
It will not be binding on the Department of Sports & Youth Services to confer the award every year. In case of non-availability of suitable persons for the award, the award shall not be given for the respective year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the State of Odisha.
To be eligible for this award, a journalist must have done significant work in the sphere of journalism for the promotion and popularization of sports and games as well as fighting for the causes of sports and sportspersons in the State of Odisha.
The applicant should not have been convicted of any criminal offence.
The award will be conferred on a person only once in his/her lifetime, pertaining to the concerned category.
The award can be given posthumously to the next of kin of the selected awardee.
Annulment Cancellation of Award:
The Award may be cancelled in case it is found that it has been obtained by fraudulent means.
In such event, the concerned person shall be asked to refund the award failing which steps will be taken to recover the involved cost from him/her with simple interest @ 5% per annum.
Application Process
Offline
Application process:
Step 01: The advertisement for the award shall be uploaded every year in January on the Department Website with the prescribed format for the application.
Step 02: The applicant can download the application form from the official website or collect it from the office of District Collector, DSOs, SPs, NYKS, Odisha Council of Sports and Sports & Youth Services Department.
Step 03: Fill in the all necessary details in the application form and attach all the relevant documents. 
Step 04: The application forms can be sent by the Collector, SP, DSO, NYKS concerned Sports Association, the person himself/herself, or Odisha Council of Sports to the Sports & Youth Services Department.
Note 01: The Department of Sports and Youth Services also reserves the right to suo moto nominate names for the award.
Note 02: The application form and all supporting documents must be self-attested by the applicant, i.e. there is no need for attestation by any Gazetted officer.
Scrutiny of Application:
The Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department will constitute a five-member scrutiny Committee comprising senior officials and coaches of the Department with Director-cum-Addl. Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department or the senior most officer of the Department as head of the Committee to scrutinize all the applications and place the scrutiny result before the selection committee for consideration.
Selection Procedure: 
An eight-member Selection Committee will be constituted by Govt. under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department for the selection of awardees.
The Selection Committee shall examine the scrutinized nominations/applications and recommend names for each award for approval of Government at the level of Hon'ble Minister, Sports & Youth Services.
Timeline for the Award:
Invitation of application through issue of Advertisement: By 31st January.
Last date for receipt of applications: By 31st March
Scrutiny and Selection: By 31st May
Award Ceremony: 29th August (National Sports Day)
Documents Required
Identity proof
Three Passport size photographs
Proof of Residence 
Attested photocopy of Accreditation Certificate, if applicable
Details of Sports competition/Championships of State, National & International importance covered by the applicant including profiles of Sports persons (Supporting documents)
Adequate documentary evidence in support of the claim for the award
