Mukhyamantri Bayan Jyoti Yojana
Odisha
HandloomHigher ProductionWeavers
Details
"Mukhyarrantri Bayan Jyoti Yojana" (MBJY) is a scheme under the Chief Minister's Special Package for Handloom weavers. The scheme aims to improve working conditions and productivity for weavers by providing necessary illumination, ensuring smooth operation during electricity issues, reducing physical strain, and increasing earning potential.

Benefits
Free Tube Lights: Distribution of 20-watt tube lights free of cost to beneficiaries.
Inverter Purchase Assistance: ₹17,500/- is given in two installments  for purchasing inverters (1st installment of ₹10,000/- for purchase of equipment and 2nd installment of ₹7,500/ - after purchase of equipment).
Free Fans: 35-watt fans given to beneficiaries at no cost.
Interest-Free Loan: Up to ₹5,000 loan available with no interest rate charged.
Eligibility
He/ She must be a bonafide weaver/ full-time ancillary worker. 
He/ She is a permanent resident/ domicile of Odisha.
The family income from all sources does not exceed ₹3, 00,000/- per annum.
At least 50% income of the family should be from weaving activities.
He or she should purchase the lighting unit from a GST-registered dealer with a valid TIN.
Where more than one member of a family is found eligible, only one of them will be entitled to benefit under this scheme
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website to Register yourself.
Step 2: Fill in all your details in the registration window and click on "Submit" and a message will be displayed for successful registration.
Step 3: Now click on “Go to Login”.  Enter the same username & password used during account creation then Click on "Login".
Step 4: Select the scheme as "Mukhyamantri Bayan Jyoti Yojana" from the dropdown menu.
Step 5: A form will open. Fill in all the details and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 6: Select the “Declaration” and click on "Save" button to see preview of the application form.  Click on "Edit" button if you want to edit the application form.
Step 7: Click on “Final Submit” button to generate and receive the OTP in Mobile No. & E-mail ID.
Step 8: Enter the OTP and click on "Submit" button.
Documents Required
List of documents to be submitted along with the application form.
Copy of recent passport-size color photograph.
Self-attested copy of the Weavers Identity Card or certificate that he is a bonafide weaver or ancillary worker.
Self-attested copy of AADHAR card.
Self-attested Xerox copy of the 1st page of the individual Savings Bank Pass Bock showing photograph, full name, name of father/spouse, address, bank, branch, account number, IFSC and MICR code details into which the assistance will be deposited. Account must be in the name of the applicant as submitted in the application form. Account must be opened in a Bank with a core banking facility to enable the digital transfer of assistance.
Certificate regarding total annual family income from the concerned Tahasildar.
An affidavit that he/she is not in receipt of similar assistance from either the State or Central Government.
An undertaking to the effect that the beneficiary will not sell off the lighting unit within three years from the date of purchase.
