Development Of Playfield Under CMSGUY
Assam
DevelopmentInfrastructureSchool
Details
The "Development of Playfield" Scheme is a Component under the Umbrella Scheme of "Chief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojna (CMSGUY)" by the Govt. of Assam. CMSGUY was launched by Hon'ble Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on 5th February 2017 in Guwahati. The scheme is being implemented in a mega-mission mode across Assam. CMSGUY will be implemented through a saturation model by covering each revenue village through focused interventions in direct economic activities, logistic support including market linkages, and community support.

The scheme "Development of Playfield" is an Infrastructure Development Scheme by the Assam Youth Development Mission Society (AYDMS) formed under Chief Minister Samagra Gramya Unnayan Yojna (CMSGUY). AYDMS has decided to develop one playfield for the promotion of Games and Sports in the State through the Sports & Youth Welfare Department, Govt. of Assam. It has been decided to develop 500 Football Playfields during 2017-18 in the first phase of operation of the scheme. It has been proposed to develop one football playground and playing facilities like Volleyball Courts having a dressing room, store-cum-office, and toilet facilities. A boundary wall will also be provided for the protection of the playground. 

Benefits
Facilities Proposed to be Created:
Improvement of the existing playfield with earth-filling, leveling with approved soil or as per requirement. 
Turfing with local suitable grass. 
Dressing room for boys, girls, and officials with electricity and provision for adequate running water in the toilet. 
Fixing of Football Goal Post of standard size (one pair) 24 feet x 8 feet made of GI Pipe of 4” to 5” in diameter with white paint. 
Boundary Wall.
NOTE: The playing facilities for Volleyball can also be developed where spaces are available.

Football Ground:
(Dimension of Football Field as per FIFA)
Standard: Length: Minimum 90 metres / Maximum 120 metres; Width: Minimum 45 metres / Maximum 90 metres
International: Length: Minimum 100 metres / Maximum 110 metres; Width: Minimum 64 metres / Maximum 75 metres
The minimum available playing area of the existing field should be: Length: 90 metres; Width: 45 metres
The size of the Goal Post is 24 ft x 8 ft and made of 5-inch diameter steel tubular pipe with white paint.

Volleyball Court:
The size of the Volleyball ground is 18 metres x 9 metres
The height of the Volley Post is 2.43 metres for men and 2.24 metres for women made of 5-inch diameter steel tubular pipe with white paint and adjustable height for men & women both. 
The earth filling should be done with sandy and loamy soil. 
The compaction of the playfield should be made with a light roller not exceeding 2 tons.
Eligibility
The Schools, Colleges, Clubs, and other Sports Organizations have playgrounds measuring a minimum of 120m in length x 90m in breadth that will be considered for development. 
The Schools, Colleges, and Clubs having requisite suitable land in the area can apply in a prescribed format to take up the scheme for the up-gradation of their playgrounds.
The earth filling should be done with sandy and loamy soil. 
The top surface of the playground should be made with sufficient sand filling and planting required grass.
The compaction of the playfield should be made with a light roller not exceeding 2 tons.
There must be sufficient space a minimum of 5m wide around the playfield for the movement of the players, officials, and spectators and for the construction of the dressing room.
The available playfield should be owned by either the local School/College Authority, Sports Club, or Gaon Panchayat.
Playing facilities should be made available to the Children, Youth, and Senior Citizens of the villages.
Application Process
Offline
Interested Schools, Colleges, Clubs, and other Sports Organizations can apply to the District Sports Officers (DSOs) in the format prescribed in Annexure-I of the scheme guidelines.
Documents Required
Self-Attested documents in support of the mandatory fields of the Application Form.
Proof of Address of the School/College/Club/SportsAssociation/Panchayat/Institution
Bank Details of the School/College/Club/SportsAssociation/Panchayat/Institution
(Account Number, Name of Bank, Name of Branch, IFS Code, Bank Balance as on date with Bank certificate)
Land Holding Certificate Playfield issued by the Competent Authority
In case of Club/Sports Associations, the Registration Certificate under the Societies Act, 1860
Photograph of the Playground with Counter Signature of District Sports Officer
Estimated Cost / Fund Required
