Farmer Suicide Ex-Gratia
Andhra Pradesh
FarmerFinancial AssistanceSuicide
Details
"Farmer Suicide Ex-Gratia" is a Financial Assistance Scheme by the Agriculture & Cooperation Dept. of the Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The scheme provides financial assistance of ₹ 7,00,000 to the family members of the deceased farmers/tenant farmers, who commit suicide due to agrarian reasons as a rehabilitation package to support the families of the farmers. The reasons for committing such suicides may be the Failure of Bore wells, Raising of Commercial crops with the high cost of cultivation, Non-Remunerative Prices, etc.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 7,00,000 to the family members of the deceased farmers/tenant farmers, who commit suicide due to agrarian reasons.
A Point of Contact at the Collector’s office of the rank of Superintendent shall be designated as in charge of farmer suicide cases and assistance to victim families.
In the process of Rehabilitation, benefits of other Government schemes should be provided on a priority basis to the family members of the deceased farmer as per the eligibility.
A Special Grievance Day shall be held at the Collectorate once a month for farmers to cover all issues of farmers including farmer suicide, distress, Government schemes, and land issues.
Eligibility
The deceased farmer should have been a resident/domicile of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The cause of death of the farmer should be suicide.
The reason for the suicide should be an agrarian reason, such as Failure of Bore wells, Raising of Commercial crops with a high cost of cultivation, Non-Remunerative Prices, Oral tenancy, and ineligibility to avail of Bank Loans, Private lending with higher interest rates, Adverse seasonal conditions, Heavy expenditure incurred towards Children education, ill health, and marriages.
The term “farmer” shall include every person who derives substantial livelihood from farming, not limited to those with title to land, but including tenant farmers and women farmers.
The beneficiary of the financial assistance should be a family member of the deceased farmer.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The District Collector shall visit the place of occurrence along with Agriculture and Revenue department officials to extend moral support and initiate further necessary action.
Step 2: The Collector and District Magistrate shall furnish his proposal with specific recommendations for payment of financial assistance to the legal heirs of the deceased farmers who committed suicide, along with the required documents for further processing of the case. 
Step 3: The Commissioner and Director of Agriculture shall thoroughly examine the report submitted by the Collector and District Magistrate and release financial assistance to the legal heirs directly or to the District Collector for reimbursement in case of direct release by the District Collector.
Step 4: The financial Assistance will be released directly to the family members of the deceased farmer for rehabilitation by the Commissioner & Director of Agriculture immediately after receipt of proposals from the District Collectors.

NOTE: Any farmer or a friend, relative, family member, or well-wisher may bring to the notice of the Collector, any situation of extreme distress of a farmer or the livelihood of such extreme act by making use of the helpline at the Collectorate. Such information shall be flashed from the Collectorate to Division Office and Mandal office immediately and the RDO and his staff will get in touch with that family immediately and organize appropriate counseling at the District level and work out a package to insulate them from the pressures of money lenders.
Documents Required
Residential/Domicile Certificate
Passport Size Photo
Ex -gratia proposals with the recommendations of the District Collector (Letter to be addressed to the Special Commissioner of Agriculture by the District Collector) 
Mandal Level and Divisional Level three-member committee report.
Aadhar Card 
Ration Card 
Death Panchanama 
Post Mortem Report 
Death Certificate 
FIR Copy 
Xerox Copies of the Promissory Notes 
Details of the Legal Heir along with Bank Details duly certified by the Tahsildar for Direct Benefit Transfer.
If the suicide is committed by a tenant farmer, documentary evidence of the lease such as Revenue Records, or Crop Cultivators Rights Card (CCRC).
