PRISM (Promoting Innovations in Individuals, Start-ups and MSMEs): Category-1: Proof of Concept/ Prototypes/ Models
Ministry Of Science And Technology
EntrepreneurshipInnovationMSMEProposalPrototypeResearchStartup
Details
The scheme "PRISM (Promoting Innovations in Individuals, Start-ups and MSMEs)" by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and Technology, aims to support individual innovators which will enable them to achieve the agenda of inclusive development - one of the thrust areas of XIIth five year plan (2012-2017). It would also provide support to institutions or organizations set up as Autonomous Organizations under a specific statute or as a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or Indian Trusts Act, 1882 leading to the development of state-of-the-art new technology solutions aimed at helping MSME clusters. Thrust Areas: The proposals shall preferably be considered in the following focus sectors: Green technology, Clean energy, Industrially utilizable smart materials, Waste to Wealth, Affordable Healthcare, Water and sewage Management and any other technology or knowledge-intensive area.

Contact Us
Scientist 'G' and Head
Promoting Innovations in Individuals, Start-ups and MSMEs (PRISM)
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Technology Bhawan
New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi-110016.
Phone: 011- 26590394; E-mail: skdpande@nic.in ; pkdutta@nic.in

Scientist 'E' and Member Secretary
Promoting Innovations in Individuals, Start-ups and MSMEs (PRISM)
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Technology Bhawan
New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi-110016.
Phone: 011- 26590364; E-mail: tripta.garg@nic.in

Benefits
Project cost up to ₹5,00,000 to help Innovators convert their ideas into demonstrable models/prototypes. 
Maximum support under this category is ₹2,00,000 or 90% of the approved project cost, whichever is lower.

NOTE 1: The financial support is not an award or a prize or a research fellowship. The financial support is provided for the work to be undertaken.
NOTE 2: Elements like self-salary, rent of own accommodation, creation of infrastructure facility like shed etc should not form the component of support/funds. The support/funds should be mainly for prototype development work/proof of concept. 
Eligibility
Any Indian citizen including student innovator can avail support to develop their novel idea into demonstrable models/prototypes.
The proposals shall preferably be in the following focus sectors: Green Technology, Clean Energy, Industrially utilizable smart materials, Waste to wealth, Affordable healthcare, water & sewage management, and any other technology or knowledge-intensive area.

NOTE 1: When a group of students want to pursue the project, then there has to be an agreement among the group about the lead applicant. Though financial support can be given only to a single applicant by name, a letter of appreciation can be given by the department to all the students of the team, after successful completion of the project. 
NOTE 2: The support is primarily aimed at encouraging student innovators. However, in general, any Indian Citizen having an innovative idea or an invention and wishing to demonstrate his idea in the form of a basic stage model/prototype/process thus providing proof of his concept can apply to this category.
Application Process
Offline
The eligible applicants are requested to submit their applications complete in all respects to the nearest TOCIC.

Step 1: Proposal Submission
Submit your project proposal in the prescribed format to the nearest TePP Outreach cum Cluster Innovation Centres (TOCICs). You can also consult with TOCIC coordinators for guidance before applying.
Step 2: Initial Screening
Upon receipt, TOCIC coordinators will screen the proposals for completeness. They will forward the proposals to Domain Knowledge Experts for evaluation.
Step 3: Expert Evaluation
Domain Knowledge Experts associated with TOCIC will evaluate the proposals.
Step 4: Recommendation
Complete and evaluated proposals are sent to DSIR for further action. They will be considered by the PRISM Advisory and Screening Committee (PASC) for recommendation.
Step 5: Grant Approval
Once approved by the Department, the applicant needs to sign "Terms & Conditions" before the release of grants-in-aid.
Step 6: Fund Release
The first release is based on project milestones and recommendations by PASC. Subsequent releases depend on project progress assessed by the Project Review Committee (PRC).
Step 7: Project Monitoring
TOCIC and other network partners, including technical experts, will monitor the approved projects. TOCIC will report project status to DSIR every 3 months. PRCs of external experts will review project progress at least once every 9 months.
Step 8: Project Closure
After successful project closure, the project completion report will be accepted by the Competent Authority in DSIR, based on PRC recommendation.
Documents Required
Signed Copy of Application 
Proof of Residence 
Innovation (Brief description of the idea highlighting innovative element)
Documentary Proof of Prior Work (video, photo, press coverage etc) 
Work Planned 
Profile of Potential User 
Copy of Aadhaar Card 
Residence Certificate issued by a Sub-Divisional Magistrate(SDM)/District Magistrate(DM) or a copy of a ration card or any other document regarding proof of residence 
PAN Number and a copy of the latest Income Tax Returns filed (In case the applicant is an Income Tax Payer)
Students will have to provide a `No Objection Certificate’ from the Head of their institutions, on the institutions’ letter-head along with their application and the commitment from the institutions that the project will be taken to its logical conclusion by the student/concerned faculty.
