Funeral and Ex-Gratia (K.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Karnataka
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerDeathEx-GratiaFuneral AssistanceLabour
Details
The "Funeral and Ex-Gratia'' by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Karnataka, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this Scheme, the Board provides financial assistance to the nominee on the event of the death of a registered construction worker. The scheme also provides an ex-gratia payment to help mitigate the financial burden caused by the sudden demise of the worker.

Benefits
Funeral Assistance: ₹4,000/- to cover funeral expenses.
Ex-Gratia Payment: ₹71,000/- to provide financial support to the nominee of the deceased.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
The applicant should be a minimum of 18 years of age.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The beneficiary should be a nominee of a deceased registered construction worker Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Karnataka.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Register”.
Step 2: Select “Register as New Construction Worker” then enter your mobile number as per the Aadhaar Registered and verify with the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Registration”.
Step 4: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents. Click on “Final Submit” to complete the registration process.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Schemes” (After the user Registration is approved, the user can access the schemes page).
Step 4: Select the concerned scheme. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 5:  Review the details and check the declaration box. Now click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Renewal Process:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Renewal”. Fill in mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 4: Review the details and click on “Submit” to complete the renewal process.
Note:
Renewal: Every construction worker must renew their registration with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board every 3 years. If not renewed within this period, a 1-year grace period is granted. After that, the registration becomes invalid. 
Timeline: Application for this benefit should be submitted within one (1) year of death.
Helpdesk:
Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board,
Address: Karmika Bhavan, Dairy Circle, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore-29.
Office No: 080-29753078
E-mail: labour.commissioner42@gmail.com
List of District Office.
List of Taluk Offices.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
Aadhar Card (Self-Attested).
Ration Card(non-mandatory).
Age Proof (Voter ID Card/Aadhar Card).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Beneficiary/original Identity card (Issued by the board).
Photocopy of bank passbook (Beneficiary or Nominee's in case of beneficiary’s death).
Death Certificate attested by gazetted officer.
Ration Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Employer Certificate.
Any Photo ID proof of Nominee.
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
For the Renewal Process:
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
