Double Bedroom Housing Scheme (2BHK Scheme)
Telangana
HousingShelter
Details
The government of Telangana formulated the double bed room housing scheme in the month of October 2015 with a view to providing dignity to the poor by providing 100% subsidized housing. There is no beneficiary contribution under this scheme which is one of its kind. In rural areas, beneficiaries solely depend on seasonal conditions for their earnings, the 2BHK housing helped in protecting them from debt traps as was the case in the past.

Hitherto the old yardstick was to provide a 260 sqft house with a single room; The "Double Bedroom Housing" provides two bedrooms, a hall, a kitchen and two toilets covering the 560 Sqft plinth area. The plot area is 125 sq yards for an independent house in a rural area and worked out to 36 Sq yards of undivided land share in G++ pattern houses in urban areas. The land is thus provided free of cost apart from the cost of the dwelling unit.

This is perhaps the only State in the Country to launch such a liberal scheme for the poor. Under this scheme, the beneficiaries neither take a loan nor contribute which is a great boon for rural and urban poor families, for acquiring a dwelling unit. It is a paradigm shift from a credit and subsidy-based scheme to a "fully subsidized scheme" which creates a sound economic asset with a hygienic living environment for the beneficiary, there by contributing enormously to the socio-economic growth of the individual and as well as the community.

Benefits
The "Double Bedroom Housing", covering the 560 Sqft plinth area, provides one Master Bedroom (90 sq. ft), one Normal Bedroom (81 sq. ft), one Living Room (140 sq. ft), one Kitchen (36 sq. ft), one Toilet (22 sq. ft), one Toilet (18 sq. ft), Stair Case (82 sq. ft), Wash Area (20 sq. ft), Wall Area (71 sq. ft).
The plot area is 125 sq yards for an independent house in a rural area and worked out to 36 Sq yards of undivided land share in G++ pattern houses in urban areas. 
The land is provided free of cost apart from the cost of the dwelling unit.
No beneficiary contribution.

GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES
Cement supply @ ₹ 230/- per Bag for the next 3 years (i.e. upto October 2019).
Exemption of basic cost and seigniorage on the sand.
EMD amount is reduced from 2.5% to 1%.
FSD is reduced from 7.5% to 2%.
The bid capacity of the contractor i.e. (2AN-B) reduced to  25 % of ECV in respect of the 2nd call of tenders whenever there is no response for the 1st call.
Registration of private builders is also allowed with the concerned SE (Regional Officer) as per their turnover certificate.
Toilets under Swatch Bharath can be tied up at the district level.
Supply of Fly ash free of cost up to 100 KMs and with 50% of transportation cost above 100 to 300 kms.
The defective liability period is reduced from 2 years to 1 year.
Permitted for price adjustment of steel for all ongoing 2BHK works.
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) Category.

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Rural:  SC/ST: 50%, Minorities: 7%, and balance 43% for others.   
Urban: SC: 17%, ST: 6%, Minorities: 12%, and balance 65% for others.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The villages for coverage of 2BHK will be selected by the District level committee as per the GO Ms. No.10, Housing (RH&C.A1) Dept, dt.15.10.2015 and selection of beneficiaries as per GO Ms No 12 Housing (RH&C.A1) Dept, dt.26.11.2015.

Step 02: The applications are called for 2BHK from eligible beneficiaries as per the schedule given by the District Collectors and the same will be collected during Gram Sabha by the designated officer.

Step 03: The preliminary scrutiny will be done at Gram Sabha to arrive at actual eligibility and prepare a list accordingly and forwarded it to the Tahsildar of that mandal for thorough verification of beneficiaries.

Step 04: The Tahsildar after thorough verification and vetting list of applicants, will submit the eligible final list of applicants to the District Collector.

Step 05: As per the schedule given by the District Collector, the list verified by the Tahsildar will be again placed in the Gram Sabhas for its final approval.

Step 06: The list finalized by Gram Sabha will be approved by the District Collector and will be made available to the public. 

NOTE: In case of any complaints, they will get enquired by the District Level Officer, nominated by the District Collector and findings will be placed before the Appellate Committee and the orders passed by the Committee will be treated as final.
Documents Required
PMAY/2BHK housing application (Available at Meeseva: Link)
Ration Card / Food Security Card
Aadhar Card of Applicant and Family Members
Voter ID card of the Applicant
Community Certificate of Applicant
Income Proof of Applicant
Passport Size Photo
Bank Passbook
