Mukhyamantri Divyangjan Vivah Protsahan Anudan Yojana
Bihar
DisabilityDivyangjanMarriagePwDVivah
Details
The "Mukhyamantri Divyangjan Vivah Protsahan Anudan Yojana" is a sub-scheme of the "Mukhyamantri Vivah Protsahan Anudan Yojana", initiated by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Bihar. The objective of this scheme is to provide social security to the disabled women/men of the state by encouraging their marriage and providing them financial assistance. This scheme is fully funded by the Government of Bihar.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive a grant of ₹1,00,000/-.
Note 1: The financial grant is provided to disabled individuals in a couple, and if both spouses are disabled, both are eligible for the grant.
Note 2: If a disabled person marries inter-caste, they are entitled to both the disabled marriage grant and the inter-caste marriage grant. For example, if both the husband and wife are disabled and belong to different castes, three units of the grant will be admissible. The wife will be eligible for both the inter-caste marriage grant and the disabled marriage grant, while the husband will be eligible for the disabled marriage grant.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Bihar.
At least one individual in the couple (either the bride or groom) should have a disability.
The minimum age requirement at the time of marriage is 18 years for the bride and 21 years for the groom.
The bride and groom should belong to poor families.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits of this scheme, the persons fulfilling the eligibility criteria for the scheme should submit their applications in the prescribed form to the Assistant Director, District Social Security Office.
Note: After approval and verification, the details of the beneficiaries will be transmitted on the e-Suvidha portal for payment by the Assistant Director, District Social Security Office.
Grievance Redressal & Escalation Matrix:
The complaints can be lodged in the Block Development Officer, Sub-divisional Office, Assistant Director, District Social Security Cell/District Child Protection Unit, Director, Social Security Office, and the office of Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/Secretary, Social Welfare Department. The office of Public Grievance Redressal Officer is functioning at the sub-divisional level and the office of District Public Grievance Redressal Officer is functioning at the district level.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant (Bride & groom)
Latest photograph of the married couple 
Identity proofs (e.g., Voter ID Card, Driving License etc.)
Proof of age
Marriage certificate
Disability certificate(s)
Income certificate
Caste certificate(s)
Residence proof
Bank passbook/bank account details
Any additional documents as required
