Overseas Educational Loan Scheme
Karnataka
EducationFinancial AssistanceLaonStudent
Details
The "Overseas Educational Loan Scheme" was launched by the Minorities Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka, and implemented by the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation. The scheme objective is to provide financial/loan assistance to students belonging to minority communities who are pursuing graduate or postgraduate degree courses in recognized universities abroad.

Benefits
The loan amount will be provided up to ₹20,00,000/- at a zero interest rate.
Eligibility
The student should be a resident of Karnataka State.
The student should belong to a minority community (Muslim, Christian, Jain, Buddhist, Sikh and Parsi).
The student should have secured at least 60% marks in the previous year.
The student should have received an offer letter from a foreign university.
Loans will be provided only on mortgage of property (building/land) to the corporation. The value of the property should not be less than the loan amount.
The students who have not received a scholarship from the Directorate of Minorities.
Application Process
Online
Step-01: Applicant need to visits the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation official website.  
Step-02: Click "Apply Online" and Enter "Mobile Number" and "Submit".   
Step-03: Enter "Aadhaar Number" Fill in the "Captcha" and Select "Next".
Step-04: Applicant will get OTP in his/her Aadhaar Linked Mobile Number.
Step-05: Enter "OTP" and select "Continue", After that Allow the official notice.
Step-06: After verifying the Aadhaar again fill in the "OTP" and Submit.
Step-07: Select the scheme "Sikhligar’s Community Development Scheme" and fill in the basic details father's name, gender, qualification detail
Step-08: Select "Next" Fill in the address detail and again select "Next".
Step-09: Upload the required document passport-size photo, educational document, income certificate, etc. 
Step-10: Click "Proceed" and Select "Submit Application" and get an Application ID.
Documents Required
Aadhaar as Residential Proof.
Caste/Minority Certificate (issued by the competent authority).
Income Certificate (issued by the competent authority).
SSLC Marks Card.
12th Std PU Marks Card.
SSLC Transfer Certificate.
Present Study Certificate.
College Fee Structure.
Copy of Passport.
Copy of Visa.
Sale Deeds & Mother Deed.
Khata Extract and Khata Certificate or Mutation.
Nil Encumbrance Certificate in form No.15.
Up to date Tax paid receipt.
Guidance rate from appropriate authority.
Spot inspection report of the property by the District Manager.
Valuation Report by registered valuer.
Affidavit from Applicant.
Joint Affidavit from the Beneficiary & the Guarantor.
Promissory Note along with D.P Note Delivery letter.
