Vrutti Protsaha Loan Scheme
Karnataka
LoanMinoritySelf-employmentSubsidy
Details
The "Vrutti Protsaha Loan Scheme" was launched by the Minorities Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka, and implemented by the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation. The scheme aims to promote self-employment and economic activities among minority communities and provides financial assistance to eligible individuals from minority communities to start or expand their economic activities, thereby fostering economic empowerment and self-sufficiency.

Benefits
Financial Assistance provided totals ₹1,00,000/- in two parts:
50% Loan Amount
50% Subsidy Amount
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to a religious minority community as defined in the Government Order.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Karnataka.
The age limit should be between 18 to 55 years.
The annual income of the applicant's family from all sources should be less than ₹1,03,000/- in urban areas and less than ₹81,000/- in rural areas.
No member of the applicant's family shall be an employee of the State/Central/ Government PSU.
The applicant and family members should not have availed of benefits under any other scheme (Excluding the Arivu Scheme) of the KMDCL in the last 5 years.
Application Process
Online
Step-01: Applicant need to visits the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation official website.  
Step-02: Click "Apply Online" and Enter "Mobile Number" and "Submit".   
Step-03: Enter "Aadhaar Number" Fill in the "Captcha" and Select "Next".
Step-04: Applicant will get OTP in his/her Aadhaar Linked Mobile Number.
Step-05: Enter "OTP" and select "Continue", After that Allow the official notice.
Step-06: After verifying the Aadhaar again fill in the "OTP" and Submit.
Step-07: Select the scheme "Sikhligar’s Community Development Scheme" and fill in the basic details father's name, gender, qualification detail
Step-08: Select "Next" Fill in the address detail and again select "Next".
Step-09: Upload the required document passport-size photo, educational document, income certificate, etc. 
Step-10: Click "Proceed" and Select "Submit Application" and get an Application ID.
Documents Required
Project Report.
Caste/Minority Certificate (issued by the competent authority).
Income Certificate (issued by the competent authority).
Copy of Aadhaar as Residential Proof.
Copy of Bank Passbook.
Self-Declaration Form from Surety.
Self-Declaration Form.
