Access To Knowledge For Technology Development And Dissemination (A2K+) - Studies
Ministry Of Science And Technology
IndustryInstitutionProposalResearchTechnology
Details
Access to Knowledge for Technology Development and Dissemination (A2K+) is a scheme targeted towards developing mechanisms to disseminate science, technology and innovation-related information to industries, research and academic institutions, In-house R&D units of industry, Scientific & Industrial Research Organizations (SIROs), consultants, industry associations, techno-entrepreneurs, government departments and others.

Supported Programmes
1: Supporting industrial technology-related studies (A2K+ Studies)
2: Supporting the organization of national and international conferences, exhibitions etc. (A2K+ Events)
3: Support for Technology Development and Utilization Programme for Women
4: Technology Development and Demonstration Programme (TDDP)

Objectives
The objective of the A2K+ Studies program is to support emerging areas of technology aimed at providing useful information and knowledge base to industry, industry associations, academia, research institutions, consultants, entrepreneurs, research students, and policymakers for doing any further work in these areas; to study and analyze the developments in the emerging technology areas and document the findings, leanings, and outcomes for wider dissemination; and preparation of status reports on technologies from publicly funded institutions, that are ready for commercialization with a view to catalyzing the translation of research output from institutions to market.

Benefits
The support shall be towards the following items of expenditure: 
Manpower.
Travel for networking, survey, stakeholder meetings, experts, resource persons, etc; (International travel is not permissible under a project).
Consultation fees for experts and resource persons.
Contingencies and consumables (Consumables may include research equipment essential for the study and approved by TAC)
Overhead charges are fixed at 15%.
Any other item upon recommendation by the TAC and approval of the competent authority.

Note 1: DSIR support towards manpower expenses shall remain fixed respective of changes in fellowship rates if any.
Note 2: No support is granted for setting up general-purpose infrastructural facilities.
Eligibility
For Agencies
Industry Associations including Sectoral Industry Associations, Export Promotion Councils and Chambers of Commerce and Industry.
Central and State Government Departments and their associated bodies including Technical Consultancy Organizations (established by State Government, Financial Institutions & Banks).
National R&D Institutions and Organizations including SIROs recognized by DSIR and PFRIs registered with DSIR.
Approved Universities and Colleges as listed on UGC/AICTE website.
Institutions having a distinct legal entity (as per Rule 228 of GFR 2017).

Topics for the Proposal (For 2023)
A study report on the development of new building materials using agro-industrial waste like PVC Waste, Municipal Waste, Construction & Demolition waste, hospital waste, e-waste etc.
A study report on the status of research on indigenous development of membranes for desalination of seawater/saline water.
A study report on research on indigenous development of membranes for sewage treatment to promote its recycling and reuse.
Report on advanced building materials and building design towards energy efficient building.
A report on ICT tools catering to a wide range of learners, including Children with Special Needs.
A study report on the development of cost-effective technology/ instrumentation in waste management systems such as Sensor based bins, Sensor-based automatic waste collection systems through garbage chutes in residential buildings.
Application Process
Offline
The prescribed application format can be downloaded from the website: http://dsir.gov.in/#files/12plan/a2k/a2ks.html. 

The Applicants should submit five hard copies of the proposal duly signed + one soft copy [MS Word file and not a PDF file] through e-mail and by enclosing a pen drive to: 

Dr. Sujata Chaklanobis, Head (A2K+)
Department of Scientific & Industrial Research
Ministry of Science & Technology
Technology Bhawan, New Mehrauli Road
New Delhi-110 016
Email: priya@nic.in 

Note: Superscribe "CONFIDENTIAL, A2K+ Studies” on the document holder.
Documents Required
Details of the Organization
Proof of Year of Establishment
Proof of Number of Employees
Proof of Legal Status
Proof of Address
Detailed Item-Wise Budget Estimates
Networking and Interactions or Financial/Technical Involvement of Other Relevant Organizations including Co-sponsorship

Details of Principal Investigator (PI) and Co-PI
Aadhaar Card
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address
Proof of Employment at the Host Institute
Proof of Experience
