Rajasthan Chief Minister's Relief Fund - Accident Assistance
Rajasthan
AccidentFinancial Assistance
Details
Launched in April 1999, "Rajasthan Chief Minister's Relief Fund - Accident Assistance" is a scheme by the Chief Minister's Secretariat, Govt. of Rajasthan. In case of death due to accident, ₹ 1,00,000 is provided to the dependent of the deceased. In case of serious injury, assistance should be approved up to ₹ 20,000, keeping in view the seriousness of the injury to the ordinary injured. A revolving fund of ₹20,00,000 each has been made available to all district collectors. The assistance is "one-time full-support" and is sanctioned by the concerned District Collector. For assistance, one has to apply either to the Tehsil/District Collector's Office or to the Chief Minister's Office.

Benefits
In case of death due to accident, ₹ 1,00,000 is provided to the dependent of the deceased. 
In case of serious injury, assistance should be approved up to ₹ 20,000, keeping in view the seriousness of the injury to the ordinary injured. 
A revolving fund of ₹20,00,000 each has been made available to all district collectors. 
The assistance is "one-time full-support" and is sanctioned by the concerned District Collector.
In case of death of a seriously injured person in an accident while undergoing treatment, assistance is given on applying within a period of 6 months from the date of death instead of the date of application.
Eligibility
The victim should be a resident of the state of Rajasthan.
The victim should have suffered serious injury / death.
In case of death, the assistance is payable only to the dependent parents/husband-wife/son-daughter of the deceased in the accident. 
Under special circumstances, assistance can be given to grandparents/dependent siblings with the consent of the Chief Minister's Office. 
In cases of murder and rape, action should be taken to give compensation under the Rajasthan Victim Compensation (Amended) Scheme-2015 under the provision of providing assistance in cases of murder and rape.
The applicant must apply within a maximum period of 6 months from the date of accident.
Application Process
Offline
The letter requesting the assistance, along with the required self-attested documents must be sent to the Official Email ID of CMRF: cmrf.cmo@rajasthan.gov.in, or in person, to the concerned Tehsil/District Collector's Office, or to the Chief Accounts Officer (CAO), Room No. 301, Chief Minister's Office, Government Secretariat, Jaipur, Rajasthan - 302 005.

NOTE : In case the application is incomplete, the applicant should be informed to make the corrections.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph.
Proof of Identity of the Applicant (and of the deceased, if applicable)
Residential Proof (Domicile Certificate)
Medical Report of the Injured (Mandatory).
Post Mortem Report in Case of Death (Mandatory) or 
In Case of Mutilation of the Dead Body, the Satisfaction Certificate of the Inquest Officer (Mandatory).
FIR Report (Mandatory).
Ration Card.
Aadhaar Card. 
First Page of Bank Account Passbook / Canceled Check or Photocopy.
Income Certificate/Proof [http://cmrelief.rajasthan.gov.in/pdf/Proforma2.pdf]
Address Proof  (Ration Card).
Treatment Estimate by the Doctor.
