Jharkhand Nirman Karmakar Mrityu/Durghatana Sahayata Yojana
Jharkhand
AccidentConstruction WorkerDisabilityFinancial AssistanceSocial Welfare
Details
"Jharkhand Nirman Karmakar Mrityu/Durghatana Sahayata Yojana" is an Insurance Scheme by the Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development Govt of Jharkhand. The scheme is also known as the "Jharkhand Construction Worker Death/Accident Assistance Scheme" in English. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme. Only the residents/domicile of the state of Jharkhand can apply to this scheme. The applications for this scheme are accepted online through the official website of the department (http://shramadhan.jharkhand.gov.in). The scheme provides social security to all registered workers in the age group of 18-60 years.

Benefits
In case of death in an accident, ₹ 5,00,000/-.
In case of complete disability in an accident, ₹ 3,00,000/-.
In case of partial disability in an accident, ₹ 2,00,000/-.
In case of normal death, ₹ 1,00,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a domicile in the state of Jharkhand.
The applicant should be a registered Construction Worker (Nirman Shramik / Nirman Karmakar).
The applicant should be in the age group of 18-60 years.
The applicant should have worked for at least 90 days.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official website of Comprehensive Labour Management System for Factory Establishment / Worker Registration / Inspection / Management & Grievance Redressal; Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development; Govt. of Jharkhand.
Step 2: At the top right corner, click "Login". On the pop-up screen, click "Register Here".
Step 3: On the next page, a Registration Form will appear. Provide the following mandatory details: First Name, Last Name, Email, and Mobile. Create a Username and a Password. Confirm the Password. Fill in the Captcha Code. Click "Register". Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via One Time Password (OTP). Upon successful verification of the OTP, your registration will be successful. The Login Credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID and Mobile Number.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official website of Comprehensive Labour Management System for Factory Establishment / Worker Registration / Inspection / Management & Grievance Redressal; Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development; Govt. of Jharkhand.
https://shramadhan.jharkhand.gov.in/home
Step 2: At the top right corner, click "Login". Fill in your Username and Password. Click "Login".
Step 3: In the ribbon, click "Services > BOC Scheme Benefit > Application Form. On the next page, the "Scheme Benefit Form" (Application Form) will open. 
a)   In the "Basic Details" section, fill in the mandatory fields (fields ending with a red asterisk mark): BOC Registration Number, Applicant's Name, Applicant's Father's Name / Husband's Name, Applicant's Date of Birth, Applicant's Aadhaar Number, District, Sex.
b)   In the "Select Scheme" section, select the scheme from the list that you wish to apply for.
c)   In the "Upload Section", upload the mandatory documents (those ending with a red asterisk mark) in the specified file size and file type.
Step 4: Finally, click on "Submit Request" to submit your application. On the next page, your "Application ID" will be displayed, confirming the successful submission of the application. Please note down this Application ID for future reference. The Application ID will also be sent to your registered Email ID.

Check Application Status: 
Step 1: Once submitted, the application goes for 3-level approval: Clerk > Labour Superintendent > DLC.
Step 2: Go to Services > BOC Scheme Benefit > Application Status.
Step 3: On the next page, fill in your Application ID, and click "Search". The status of your application will be displayed in a tabular format: Application ID, Applicant Name, Scheme Applied, Application Status, Remarks, Date, and Time. 
Step 4: Once the DLC approves the application, the "Application Status" changes to "Approved". The Applicant can take print of this page by clicking “PRINT” and submit the same at the Labour Office to avail of the scheme benefit.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate.
Death Certificate (in the case of normal death or death in an accident).
Disability Certificate (in the case of complete/partial disability).
Proof of Age / Date of Birth.
eSHRAM Card.
Passport Sized Photograph.
Proof of Registration as a Construction Worker.
Details of the Bank Account.
Income Certificate.
