Tuition Fees And Examination Fees To Vjnt/sbc Students Studying In High Schools
Maharashtra
Examination FeesHigh SchoolSpecial Backward ClassTuition FeesVimukta Jati Nomadic Tribes
Details
The Government of Maharashtra introduced Tuition fees and Examination fees to Vimukta Jati Nomadic Tribes (VJNT)/ Special Backward Classes (SBC) students studying in High Schools scheme to improve the interest of VJNT/SBC students in High Schools. To help and encourage the VJNT/SBC parents/ guardians for their children's education.  Govt. has introduced a scheme named Tuition Fee Exam. Fees to VJNT/SBC students studying in High Schools, irrespective of age and income vide Govt. Resolution No. EBC/1068/83567/J dated 24th December 1970 and G.R. No. EBC-1094/PK-91/ BCW-1 dated 29 October 1996.  Tuition fees, Examination fees, library fee, laboratory fee, and playground fee is being paid. 

Benefits
 BPL students studying in Govt. approved aided, non-aided, permanent non-aided schools in 1st to 10th standard are being paid Rs.100/- to 200/- Education Fee as per Urban and Rural area. 
Tuition fees, Examination fees, Laboratory fees, Library fees, etc. fees are sanctioned and paid to concerned Govt. approved aided, non-aided, permanent non-aided schools. 
No other concessional benefit is admissible to such students. 
Eligibility
He should be a student of a recognized High School. 
No limit on age or income. 
Students should belong to V.J.N.T. & S.B.C. category.
Once failure is eligible. 
Twice failure is not eligible.   
Application Process
Offline
The proposal will be submitted by Head Master of the concerned School through the concerned District Social Welfare Officer, Zillah Parishad.   
For Mumbai City, only proposals must be submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Social Welfare, Mumbai City.   
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number.
Domicile Certificate of Maharashtra.
Caste Certificate VJNT or SBC Community (duly signed by an authorized Revenue Officer, not below the rank of Tehsildar).
Family Income Certificate.
Marksheet of the Latest Educational Qualification.
Bank Account Details.
Passport-Sized Photograph.
