Self Employment Scheme
Karnataka
EmpowermentMinoritiesSelf Employment
Details
Detailed 
Under this scheme, Subsidies will be provided to the religious minority communities with the help of Nationalized / Scheduled banks to start or improve a small-scale handicraft industry, service sector, and agro-based activities. 
People belonging to State Religious Minority Communities are covered under this scheme. (State Religious Minority Communities consist of People belonging to Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist, and Jain Communities). 
Subsidy will be 33% of the unit cost or a maximum of Rs. 1.00 Lakh.

The beneficiaries will be selected by the below Selection Panel.
MLA of the concerned Assembly Constituency – Chairman
Member of the Legislative Council who is a permanent resident in that Taluk - Vice-Chairman
Concerned Taluk Tahsildar – Member
Executive Officer of concerned Taluk Panchayat-Member
The District Lead Bank Manager – Member
District Joint Director, Commerce, and Industry – Member
Concerned District’s Deputy Director, Women and Child Welfare Department – Member
Concerned District Manager, Karnataka Minority Development Corporation- Member Secretary.

Benefits
Benefits
Under this scheme, a subsidy of 33% of the unit cost or a maximum of Rs. 1.00 Lakh will be given to  persons belonging to religious minority communities
Eligibility
Eligibility
Applicants must belong to the State Religious Minority Community.
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
The age limit of the applicant is between 18 to 55 years.
Family annual income from all sources should not be more than Rs.81,000/- in a rural areas and Rs. 1,03,000 in urban areas.
No member of the applicant's family shall be an employee of the State/Central/ Government PSU.
Applicants should not have availed of a loan in KMDC earlier.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
First, go to the official website, and fill out the application form.
Print the application form.
Submit this application form along with other relevant documents 
After the approval of the Selection Panel, Subsidy will be transferred to your bank account.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Online application
Beneficiary's latest 2 passport size photos
Caste and income certificate
Copy of Aadhaar card
Project report of the industry activity
