YSR Law Nestham
Andhra Pradesh
Financial AssistanceLaw GraduateSocial Welfare
Details
Being implemented since December 2019, the scheme "YSR Law Nestham" by the Law Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh provides a monthly stipend of an amount of ₹ 5,000/- to the Junior Advocates. The applicant should be in the rolls of Advocates being maintained by the Andhra Pradesh State Bar Council under Section 17 of the Advocates Act, 1961. Only the Law Graduates, who passed out in the year 2016 and afterward are only eligible.

Benefits
A monthly stipend of an amount of ₹ 5,000/- for the first three years.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident/domicile of the state of Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant shall possess Bachelor's Degree in Law.
The applicant should be a Law Graduate, who passed out in the year 2016 and afterward.
The name of the applicant shall be entered in the rolls of Advocates being maintained by the Andhra Pradesh State Bar Council under Section 17 of the Advocates Act, 1961.
The Junior Advocates, who started practice and have not crossed the first three (3) years of practice, as of the date of issue of the Government Order, are eligible for a stipend for the remaining period.
The Junior Advocate shall not exceed Thirty-Five (35) years as of the date of issue of the Government Order.
This is a “One Family, One Benefit” scheme (“Family” means Husband, Wife, and their Children).
Application Process
Online
Application:
Step 1: The Applicant shall register his/ her application on the official website duly uploading the certificates prescribed in the application format.
Step 2: The Applications will be sent to Village /Ward volunteers through the Village Secretariat/ Commissioner of Municipality and Municipal Corporation by the Collector.
Step 3: Once the genuinity of the application is verified, Municipal Commissioner in Urban Areas and MPDO in Rural Areas will take approval from the Collector and upload it to the CFMS database portal. The Applications will be displayed in the Village / Ward Secretariat for social audit.

Method of Payment:
Step 1: The details will be entered in the CFMS Portal. The Law Department will prefer a consolidated Bill for all eligible beneficiaries approved by the Collectors and submit it to the Treasury for verification and arranging payment to the bank account of the beneficiary.
Step 2: Once the amount is credited into the bank account of the beneficiary, Village /Ward volunteer will door deliver the “payment receipt” and message of the Hon’ble Chief Minister to the beneficiary.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate
Marksheet / Passing Certificate of Bachelor's Degree in Law
Proof of Identity
Proof of Age / Date of Birth
Passport Sized Photograph
Details of the Bank Account
An affidavit attested by his/her Senior Advocate with 15 years of standing of practice or Concerned Bar Association or by the presiding officer of such court, every six months, stating that he/she is still in active practice.
Certificate of practice after clearing the Bar examination conducted by the Bar Council of India within two (2) years. (to be submitted after enrolment into the scheme)
Undertaking that he/she will intimate online or to the registering authority, in case he/she leaves the Profession or otherwise he/she gainfully employed.
