Internship Scheme For Students Of Counselling/ Psychology/ Social Work/ Home Science Etc
Goa
InternshipPostgraduationSocial WelfareStudent
Details
This is an Internship Scheme by the Directorate of Women and Child Development, Government of Goa. The objective of this scheme is to offer aspiring postgraduate students an opportunity for internship facilities to be trained as qualified interns in state-run private children's and shelter homes who can be offered hands-on job training experience. The scheme is open to any student who has passed out from any of the recognised universities with a Master's Degree in Social Service/ Social Work/ Sociology/ Psychology/ Home Science/ Post Graduate Diploma in Counselling etc.

Number
The total number of slots for interns per year shall be fixed at 15, extendable upto 20.

Duration
The period of internship shall be for a maximum of twelve months. 

Location
The selected interns will have to undergo training and work at the following places:
State-Run Children's Home.
Protective Home for Women.
Juvenile Justice Boards.
Child Welfare Committees.
At any other Children's Home, Shelter Homes etc recognized by the Government. 

Reporting
The Interns shall work as per directions and under total supervision of the officers in charge at the respective place of deployment during the period of internship or when deployed for field work at any place for preparation of Probation Officers' reports or for Home study report inquiries etc.

Benefits
Allowance
The interns shall be paid ₹ 15,000/- lumpsum as internship allowance per month and for part of the month shall be paid on a pro-rata basis.

Leaves
1 (One) Paid Leave per Month during the training period. 
Eligibility
The applicant should have passed out from any of the recognised universities with a Master's Degree.
The Master's Degree should have been in Social Service/ Social Work/ Sociology/ Psychology/ Home Science/ Post Graduate Diploma in Counselling etc.
The applicant should have passed out as a post-graduate within three years prior to applying for the internship.
The applicant should have obtained at least 50% marks in aggregate in the final year of the postgraduation.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Take the print of the format of the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2:The applicant should send the application to:
Director, Directorate of Women And Child Development, Panaji-Goa, 2nd floor, Old Education Building, 18th June Road, Altinho, Panaji, Goa - 403 001.
Documents Required
Passport size photograph
Birth Certificate
Proof of Educational Qualification (Post Graduate Degree and attested copy of Marksheets of the PostGraduate course)
Proof of Work/ Field Work Experience (if any)
