Jute Resource-Cum-Production Centre
Ministry Of Textiles
MarketingProductionResourceSalesTraining Skilling Program
Details
Jute Resource-Cum-Production Centre (JRCPC) will be set up in the local clusters/ localities across the country in collaboration with bonafide Agencies who have adequate experience in training/ skilling programs and have required training cum-production infrastructure.  The Collaborating Agency will draw list of potential beneficiaries from artisans, individuals, members of Women Self Help Groups, NGOs, members of Cooperative Societies, Trusts etc. willing to be involved in the JDP manufacturing activities.

Benefits
To spread Jute Diversificaion Programs and activities throughout the country. 
To popularise Jute as Natural, Bio-degradable and Eco-friendly fibre as a robust alternative to hazardous plastic/polythene bags.
To set up Jute Resource-cum-Production Centres (JRCPC) in multiple locations of the country for providing training, designing, production, raw material & Market support to artisans, entrepreneurs, Women Self Help Groups, NGOs, members of Cooperative Socieities, Trusts, etc.  in their clusters/localities to help them set up JDP production units; 
To help create sustained employment in production units or through employment in the operaton areas of JRCPC. 
To help set up and increase JDPs production centres in such clusters/localities.  
Maximize participation of women through WSHGs to strengthen Women Empowerment. 
To supprt inmates of the Correctional Home and families of the Police, ParaMilitary and Armed Forces Welfare Societies to involve them in JDPs activities. 
To impart trainings to about 18,000 persons to help them create and upgrade skill for Manfacturing of Jute Diversified Products; 
To create sustained employment for about 10,800 JRCPC trainings’ beneficiaries; 
Over 70% of the training's beneficiaries under the Scheme will be women, leading to Women Empowerment; 
 To provide backward linkages viz; raw material supplies through JRMB and forward linkges viz; sales and marketing of JDPs through Jute Retail Outlets and NJB fairs & exhibitions to the beneficiaries.
Eligibility
The Agency and its functionaries should be bonafide Indian agencies and Indian Citizens;   
Reputed Registered Jute Entrepreneurs/Manufacturers, Exporters, Merchant Traders, NGOs, Cooperative Societies, Federations, PSUs/Organisations of the Central/State Govt. and other firms / Agencies engaged in the Product identification, Bulk Production, Skill Training and Marketing of Jute Diversified Products (JDPs) at least for the last three years   
Recognized agencies having at least three years of experience in the Training, Promotion, and Development of WSHGs in the field of production and Marketing of Jute products (JDPs) or similar schemes in the Handloom, Handicrafts, and Textiles sector will be preferred.  
The CA/OA should have its own office of atleast 250 sq.ft. with telephone/ mobile connection, computer/ laptop with email facilities etc. for running the Jute Resource-CumProduction Production Center, and atleast 500 sq. ft space for setting up of the Jute Resource- cum Production Centre. 
Application Process
Online
The proposals, complete in all respects, are to be submitted  "Online" through the NJB website 
The hard copies of the applications and proposals, along with all prescribed supporting documents are to be submitted to the Head Office/Regional Offices of NJB, as per the jurisdictions, along with covering letter on the company's letterhead. 
Relevant information in the prescribed format enclosed at Annexure are to be furnished alongwith the following documents:  

1. Ownership document (MoU/ AoA of Companies/ Registered Deed of Partnership/ Registration of Societies (or) Trade License, etc., and Adhaar Card / Address Proof of the authorized representative of the agency).   
2. Income Tax Return for last financial year along with PAN number  
3. Details of PAN, GST returns for the last 3  financial years   
4. Annual Reports for last three financial years   
5. Audited financial statements for last three years   
6. Any other documents establishing the credential of the agency   
7. Other supporting documents ( Project experience certificates etc.)   
8. Recommendation from Dist. Magistrate/Dist. Collector/DIC/ NABARD/ DRDA/BDO may be submitted   
9. Details of experience in Trainings, Designing/ Product development, Production and Marketing of JDP sector including Award Won and details of its creativity, work done in the past in connection to the scope of the work suggested.   
10. Proof of Experience and handling relevant activities to be mentioned;   
11. An Concept / Approach note, (As  per  guidelines  indicated  below) highlighting the need of the quality training focusing on development of Jute Diversified Sector through product identification, quality training with design inputs, bulk production and market sales, promotion of these JDPs in domestic and international market.   
12. An Undertaking from the Agency, that the JRCPC, if allotted,  will be operated for atleast one year until and unless terminated by NJB earlier. 
Documents Required
1. Ownership document (MoU/ AoA of Companies/ Registered Deed of Partnership/ Registration of Societies (or) Trade License, etc., and Adhaar Card / Address Proof of the authorized representative of the agency).  
Income Tax Return for last financial year along with PAN number   
Details of PAN, GST returns for the last 3  financial years   
Annual Reports for last three financial years   
Audited financial statements for last three years   
Any other documents establishing the credential of the agency   
Other supporting documents ( Project experience certificates etc.)   
Recommendation from Dist. Magistrate/Dist. Collector/DIC/ NABARD/ DRDA/BDO may be submitted   
Details of experience in Trainings, Designing/ Product development, Production and Marketing of JDP sector including Award Won and details of its creativity, work done in the past in connection to the scope of the work suggested.   
Proof of Experience and handling relevant activities to be mentioned;   
An Concept / Approach note, (As  per  guidelines  indicated  below) highlighting the need of the quality training focusing on development of Jute Diversified Sector through product identification, quality training with design inputs, bulk production and market sales, promotion of these JDPs in domestic and international market.   
An Undertaking from the Agency, that the JRCPC, if allotted,  will be operated for atleast one year until and unless terminated by NJB earlier. 
