Devnarayan Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme
Rajasthan
EducationFinancial AssistanceScholarshipStudent
Details
Extremely Backward Class Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme has been implemented on the lines of the pre-matric scholarship scheme being given to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students for classes 6th to 10th of very backward classes.

Benefits
Selected students have to study according to the approved syllabus by State Government.
As per the rules  Education,  Accommodation, Meal,  Dress,  text writing material and books will be provided Free of cost. 

Category Class Scholarship Amount
Boy Students Class 6 to Class 8 Rs. 50/- per month
Girl Students Class 6 to Class 8 Rs. 100/- per month
Boy Students Class 9 to Class 10 Rs. 60/- per month
Girl Students Class 9 to Class 10 Rs. 120/- per month
Eligibility
The students should be a native of Rajasthan state.
Applicant students should belong to the following Other Backward Classes, that must have been issued by Tehsildar or a higher-level revenue officer.
(i). Banjara, Baladiya, Labana. 
(ii). Gadia-Lohar, Gadolia.
(iii). Gujar, Gurjar. 
(iv). Raika, Raibari (Debasi).
(v). Gadariya (Gadri), Gayari.
 The annual income of the parents/guardian of the applicant from all sources (including the candidate's own income, if any) should be up to Rs.2,00,000 (Rupees two lakh). 
An employed student who studies as a full-time student by taking leave without pay during the entire course will be eligible for the scholarship.
All the children of the same parent/guardian will be eligible to benefit from this scheme.
Students who are not getting any kind of scholarship or allowance for study from central, state / public sources.
Application Process
Online
Applicant students have to visit the official website.
Now Select the Login option or Register Option. 
Applicants will be redirected to the Rajasthan SSO portal. 
Now students can log in with their Jan-Aadhaar ID. 
Fill out the application form.
Attach the required documents.
Submit.
Documents Required
Domicile Certificate Copy.
Caste Certificate Copy.
Income Certificate Copy.
Education Qualification Marksheet / Certificate Copy.
Jan Aadhar/Bhamashah Card Copy.
Aadhar Card Copy.
