Mukhyamantri Nirmaan Majadur Kaushal vikaas evan Parivaar Sashaktikaran Yojana
Chhattisgarh
BusinessEmpowermentSkill Upgrade
Details
In 2012, Chhattisgarh State Government started "Mukhyamantri Nirmaan Majadur Kaushal Vikaas Evan Parivaar Sashaktikaran Yojana" for Building and other construction workers.
The objective of the scheme is to enable the laborers of Chhattisgarh state to get more new skills in their work and more employment opportunities and with the  skill development programs that generate new employment opportunities for the local people are also included.

Benefits
Registered construction workers will be given training for skill upgradation.
Registered construction workers will be provided certificates of their work trade.
Family members of registered construction workers will be given training in various trades as per their interest.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of Chhattisgarh state.
It is necessary for construction workers to be registered with the board.
Age limit should be between 18 to 50 years.
If a person parallelly getting the benefits from state Government, that will not be eligible for this scheme benefits. 
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Step-1. Applicant have to visit the official labour website of Chhattisgarh State.
Step-2. Click on apply now under the Building and other construction.
Step-3. Now applicant have to provide the below detail.
District,
New registration number.
And click on check the details
Step-4. Now select the scheme name here. 
Step-5. Fill out the online form. 
Step-6. Upload required documents.
Labor registration card.
Ration Card.
Residential Proof. 
Bank account Details
Step-7. Click on submit.
Step-8. Note the application number.

Trace the Application Status
Step-1. Applicant have to visit the official labour website of Chhattisgarh State.
Step-2. Click on "Check the application status" 
under the Unorganized worder board option.
Step-3. Select the scheme name.
Step-4. Enter the application number. 
Step-5. Click on search.
Documents Required
Labor registration card.
Ration Card.
Residential Proof. 
Bank account Details
