Scheme For Grant Of Rewards To The Children Of Salt Labourers
Ministry Of Commerce And Industry
ChildrenRewardsSalt IndustrySalt LabourersSalt WorkersStudents
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Grant of Rewards to the Children of Salt Labourers” was launched by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry in the year 1985. Initially, the scheme known as “Scheme for grant of rewards to the children of labourers working in Salt Industry (CRS)” was initiated for granting 20 rewards to the children of the salt workers to enable them to meet the initial expenses either partly or wholly for purchase of books, stationeries, etc., on admission to recognized institutes for higher studies.
         Since 2011-12 the numbers of rewards are 3500 with a financial implication of ₹45.00 Lakh. Under the scheme, the financial assistance will be given as ₹1000/- for the students of classes VI to VIII, ₹1500/- for classes IX to X, and ₹2000/- for classes XI to XII with the proviso that awards for girl child be reserved to a minimum of 50% allocation per state. In the absence of female students in a particular Salt Factory/State, the reward could be given to the available eligible male students in each category of other Salt Factory/State.

Benefits
The rewards shall be granted once in each academic year to the meritorious children of salt workers to enable the students to meet the initial expenses either partly or wholly for the purchase of books, stationery, etc. on admission to a recognized Institute, recognized by the State/Central Government.
The rewards shall be granted to the students of the salt workers in cash, to be paid in one lump sum at the commencement of the academic year at the rates given below:
Student/Classes Rewards in an academic year
Students of classes VI to VIII ₹1000/-
Students of classes IX to X ₹1500/-
Students of classes XI to XII  ₹2000/-
Eligibility
The children of only those salt workers who have put in a minimum of one year of continuous service in any of the salt works & passing from a recognized Government School are eligible to apply under the scheme.
A child of a salt worker should be studying in Class VI to XII.
A child of a salt worker to be eligible for a reward should have passed the examination in the first attempt.
Note 01: Preference will be given, other things being equal to the SC/ST/BC/Backward area applicants if applicants are both from either of these categories and the general category.
Note 02: The awards for girl children be reserved to a minimum of 50% allocation per state. In the absence of female students in a particular Salt Factory/State, the reward could be given to the available eligible male students in each category of other Salt Factory/State.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: A child of a salt worker, who desires to avail himself/herself of a reward, shall apply in the prescribed application form. The application form is available with Scheme Guideline (Annexure) and can be downloaded from the Official website.
Step 02: The completely filled application form along with all the supporting documents shall be sent to the Salt Commissioner, Jaipur through his/her employer, latest by the 31st day of July of the academic year in which the child has passed the Primary/Middle/Secondary/Higher Secondary School Certificate examination.
Note 01: Such applications shall be accompanied by a certificate from the employer of the salt worker specifying the date from which the salt worker has been in continuous service in the salt work.
Note 02: Such Applications shall also be accompanied by a certificate that the child has passed the Primary/Middle/ Secondary/Higher Secondary School Certificate examination in the first attempt and a certified copy of the mark sheet showing the marks obtained by the child of the salt worker at the said examination duly issued by the concerned Board. 
Scrutiny of Application:
Step 01: All applications received by the Regional Officer shall be properly scrutinized by him and the Regional Officer shall submit them to the Salt Commissioner with suitable recommendations for grant of rewards.
Step 02: The Regional officer shall process all such applications and submit them to the Salt Commissioner, Jaipur with his recommendations, latest by the 20th August, of the academic year.
Note: For such scrutiny and recommendation, the Regional Officer shall be guided strictly by merit as indicated by the percentage of marks obtained by the applicant in the Primary/Middle/Higher Secondary/School Certificate examination in that academic year.
Selection Process:
On receipt of an application, with recommendations of the Regional Officer, the Salt Commissioner shall scrutinize all the applications and decide the case in which rewards shall be granted.
Note 01: The Salt Commissioner will be guided by the merit of applications and the recommendations of the Regional Officer in each case.
Note 02: The Salt Commissioner’s decision in the matter of grant of rewards shall be final and no correspondence or appeal shall lie against his decision to give reward.
Documents Required
Identity proof of applicant i.e. Aadhaar Card etc.
A certificate that the child has passed the Primary/Middle/Secondary/Higher Secondary School Certificate examination in the first attempt.
Certified copy of the mark sheet showing the marks obtained by the child of the salt worker at the said examination duly issued by the concerned Board.
Birth certificate of the applicant
Caste certificate
Bank account details/ Bank Pass Book
Certificate of the employer of the parents of the applicant
Residence proof, if any
