Tuition Fees And Examination Fees To Vjnt Students
Maharashtra
Examination FeesStudentsTuition FeesVimukta Jati And Nomadic Tribes
Details
The Government of Maharashtra launched a scheme namely "Tuition fees and examination fees to Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) students.
Scheme Objective
Under the scheme, 
Tuition Fees, 
Admission Fees
Term Fees
Library Fees
Laboratory Fees
Gymkhana Fees, and
Examination Fees 
All the students belonging to V.J. and N.T. are being reimbursed for the payment of these mentioned 7 fees at Post Matriculation Education in recognized educational institutions. Students with one failure and those not covered under the Government of India Scholarship are also held eligible for such reimbursement.

Benefits
All types of compulsory fees such as Tuition fees, and Exams. Fees & other fees are reimbursed to the concerned college/institution.
Eligibility
He should belong to the Vimukta Jatis & Nomadic Tribes(VJNT) category.
Reimbursement will be sanctioned to the students, whose parents' income is between ₹ 1,00,000 to ₹ 4,50,000.
Application Process
Online

Step 1: Visit the official website to register yourself by clicking on “New Applicant registration” and fill in all the mandatory details (Applicant’s Name, Username, Password, Email, and Mobile Number)

Step 2: Now, you may Login by filling Login details.
Step 3: Create your profile by filling in all your updated personal details like address, qualifications, etc.
Step 4: After filling in 100% of the profile information, you may apply for the eligible schemes.
Scrutiny concerned college should forward his application to the concerned Asstt. Commissioner Social Welfare for sanction.

Note: Online application is to be filled out for the first year of that course only. From Ian year to the completion of the course, the application is renewed by the concerned college and forwarded to the concerned Asstt. Comm. Social Welfare for sanction.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number.
Domicile Certificate of Maharashtra.
Caste Certificate VJNT or SBC Community (duly signed by an authorized Revenue Officer, not below the rank of Tehsildar).
Family Income Certificate.
Marksheet of the Latest Educational Qualification.
Bank Account Details.
Passport-sized Photograph.
