Vidyajyothi Scheme- Financial Aid For Uniforms And Study Materials To PH Students
Kerala
Financial AssistancePerson With DisabilityStudentStudy MaterialUniform
Details
The scheme “Vidyajyothi Scheme- Financial Aid for Uniforms and Study Materials to PH Students” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Social Justice Department with the help of Kerala Social Security Mission conducted a State-wide disability survey and it has been identified that there are 7,79,793 differently-abled persons out of which 1,30,799 persons are below the age of 18 years. For the educational upliftment of such PH students, Social Justice Department has initiated this scheme which provides financial assistance for the purchase of uniforms and study materials. 

Benefits
Financial assistance is being provided to students whose disability percentage is 40% or above for the purchase of study materials and uniforms on the following basis:
Sl. No. Course/Class Assistance for Study materials Assistance for Uniform
1 9th to 10th Standard @ ₹1000/- each (50 children from each district) @ ₹1500/- (30 children from each district)
2 +1, +2, ITI, Polytechnic, VHSC @ ₹2000/- each (50 children from each district) @ ₹1500/- each (30 children from each district)
3 Degree, Diploma, Professional Courses @ ₹3000/- each (25 children from each district) Nil
4 Post Graduation @ ₹3000/- each (20 children from each district) Nil
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Kerala.
The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should be studying in Government / Aided Institution in Kerala.
The financial assistance will be given to the students who are studying in Class 9th to Post-Graduation.
The applicant who has 40% or more disability is eligible to apply under the scheme.
The applicant’s annual family income is not applicable under this scheme.
Note: The preference will be given to the students of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Identity card i.e. Aadhaar Card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Copy of BPL Card
Disability Certificate/ Copy of Disability Identification Card
Educational Certificate
Certificate from Head of School/College
Bank details- Copy of Pass Book
Other documents, if any
