Safai Karmakaar Ke Putr/Putri Hetu Vishesh Coaching Yojana
Chhattisgarh
CoachingEducation
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakaar Ke Putr/Putri Hetu Vishesh Coaching Yojana" for unorganized worker on 11 March 2015. The main objective of the scheme to provide financial assistance for free coaching. 

Benefits
The fee for special coaching for admission in engineering, medical, CA and MBA or other professional education to the son/daughter (two children) studying in class 10th and above will be paid by the board.
Eligibility
Children of registered sanitation workers will qualify for benefits.
If a student is eligible for assistance from multiple government departments or institutions, they may choose the program that is most beneficial to them, but they cannot receive benefits from two programs simultaneously.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Scholarship application form
Student's birth certificate
Mark certificate of previous year exam.
