Mangalya Scheme For Widow Remarriage
Kerala
Divorced WomanFinancial AssistanceRemarriageWidowWoman
Details
The “Mangalya Scheme” was launched by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, financial assistance is to be provided to eligible widows and divorced women for their remarriage. In Kerala, women not only outnumber men but also outlive them, so the marital status of women in Kerala is very important. It could influence the overall care and support they receive from their family and society. Statics show only 3.5% of the total male population in Kerala are widowers and the proportion of the widowed female population is 11.56%. This gender gap adversely affects women in every sphere of their life. It is in this context, that the Government of Kerala envisages the scheme called ‘Mangalya’ to encourage widow remarriage. The scheme imparts financial assistance for the widows/divorced to remarry.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹25000/- is provided to eligible widows and divorced women to remarry.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State.
The applicant should be a widow and a divorced woman.
Women belonging to the age group of 18 to 50 years who are legally divorced and widowed are eligible to apply under the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the scheme's benefits, the application duly filled out should be forwarded to District Women and Child Officers through Child Development Project Officers.
Documents Required
The following particulars should be attached to the application form:
1. Identity proof
2. Proof of remarriage/remarriage certificate
3. Death Certificate of the first Husband
4. Legal document of divorce (For divorced women)
5. Proof of BPL/Priority Category
6. Proof of age in the form of a school leaving certificate or certificate issued by the competent authority
7. Certificate from Village officer showing that husband has deserted the woman for over 7 years (for such applicant)
8. Copy of bank passbook
