Scheme For Providing Assistive Devices To Differently Abled Persons
Kerala
Assistive DevicesDifferently Abled PersonsDisabilityPwDSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Providing Assistive Devices to Differently Abled Persons” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, the Government of Kerala provides assistive devices to differently-abled persons for improving their quality of life in terms of mobility, communication, and for performing their daily activities. There is a wide range of assistive devices available to meet the needs of persons with disabilities like Joy stick operated Wheel chair, Smart Phone with screen Reader, Daisy Player, CP Wheel Chair, Talking Calculator, etc. Due to mobility impairment Persons with Disabilities (PWDs) encounter many barriers to education while travelling, earning a job, etc. Therefore, by use of these Aids & assistive devices, Persons with Disabilities become independent and their participation in society increases.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the following assistive devices will be provided to differently-abled persons:
Joy stick-operated Wheelchair
Smart Phone with Screen Reader
Daisy Player
CP Wheel Chair
Talking Calculator, etc.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
Disabled persons with 40% or more disability are eligible to apply under the scheme.
The combined annual family income should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-.
The Medical Board should certify that the applicant is capable to use the assistive device. 
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Identity card i.e. Aadhaar Card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Copy of Disability Identification Card 
Certificate of Authorized Officer 
Certificate of being able to use the required equipment 
Copy of Income Certificate 
Bank details- Copy of Pass Book
Other documents, if any
