Coir Vikas Yojana- Coir Industry Technology Upgradation Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
CITUSCoirCoir IndustryMSMETechnology Upgradation
Details
The scheme “Coir Industry Technology Upgradation Scheme (CITUS)” is a component of the “Coir Vikas Yojana” and the scheme was launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Government of India. The objectives of this component are:
To provide modern infrastructure facilities to the production units resulting in improvement of productivity and quality.
To support the establishment of new 'State-of-the-Art' Coir Processing Units.
To spread the industry to potential areas.
To promote enhanced utilization of available raw materials.
To create more employment opportunities, especially for women in rural areas.
To attract new generation entrepreneurs to the industry.
To modernize the existing coir units.
To promote the development and installation of information technology including Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP).
To support the production of high-value customer-oriented products.
To make the Coir Industry integrated and competitive with modern technologies.
To facilitate the adoption of eco-friendly production techniques.
To achieve the target of a pollution-free coir industry with technological advancements.  
Nodal Agency:
Coir Board, Kochi, will be the Nodal Agency for the implementation of CITUS. The component will be implemented through the Regional/Sub-regional offices of the Coir Board. Technical interventions, wherever necessary, will be provided by Central Coir Research Institute (CCRI), Kalavoor, and Central Institute of Coir Technology (CICT), Bangalore, and other institutes engaged in the development and promotion of the coir industry.

Benefits
Assistance under the component will be available to entrepreneurs in the categories of SHGs, Associations, and Enterprises from small/medium/co-operative/public sector, interested in the production of value-added coir/coir blended items, where coir is the dominant fiber, by setting up a new unit or adding to the existing capacity, subject to investment only in new Plant and Machinery.
All eligible Coir units under the component will be entitled to get financial assistance for the procurement of eligible Plants and Machinery for modernization, upgradation, and/or establishing a new unit on making an application in the prescribed format for the purpose.
The financial assistance shall be 25% of the cost of admissible items of Plant and Machinery procured by the Coir units.
The upper ceiling of the financial assistance will be ₹2.50 crore per coir unit/project.
The financial assistance will be payable only in Indian Rupees in India through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode and Public Finance Management System (PFMS) as reimbursement of the amount invested.
Note 01: Single unit/enterprise will not be allowed for grant of assistance under this Scheme.
Note 02: No applications from those units exceeding the investment limits prescribed for medium-scale enterprises in the MSME Act, from time to time, shall be considered for grant of assistance under this component.
Note 03: The amount will be released after the Coir Unit installs the appropriate/approved Plant and Machinery and commences its operation.
Note 04: The applicant unit will be at liberty to procure the Plant and Machinery out of the loan amount from any financial institution/bank/leasing company or from its own resources
Eligibility
All newly established coir production/processing units in the categories of individuals/partnership firms, SHGs, Associations, and enterprises from small scale/medium / co-operative/ private sector / public sector, interested in the production of value-added coir /coir blended items, where coir is the dominant fiber by setting up new coir unit or upgrading the existing unit will be eligible to apply for financial assistance.
All coir production/processing units registered with the Coir Board under Coir Industry (Registration) Rules, 2008, and having Udyog Aadhar are eligible to apply for financial assistance for modernization under this scheme.
The units which have applied for assistance under this component will have to complete 5 years of successful operation before applying for assistance under modernization.
The financial assistance under this component will be available to entrepreneurs who have not availed of any Central Government subsidy under PMEGP, CUY, DPI, TUF, etc. for the same purpose.
Note 01: Financial assistance under this component will be extended to the entire coir sector of the country. The project cost of the units applying for financial assistance shall be within the investment limits prescribed for Small and Medium Enterprises under the MSME Act from time to time.
Note 02: The equipment and machinery/motors eligible for assistance under the scheme shall not be below the standards prescribed from time to time by BIS.
Note 03: The ceiling of prices of different items of machinery will be fixed and reviewed periodically by a five-member Technical Committee (TC).
Note 04: The machinery/equipment procured should be as per the standards prescribed by the BIS, and can be sourced from the open market at the option/choice of entrepreneurs with valid receipts/invoices with GST number. Machinery can also be imported for setting up high-tech coir processing units for which the beneficiary unit shall substantiate the reason for the import of machinery.
Note 05: The machinery suppliers will have to give a 'performance guarantee' for a period of at least two years to the beneficiaries and a copy to be provided while availing the incentive under the scheme. In the case of imported machinery, the units shall produce the invoice, shipping bill, etc. certified by Customs Authorities/DGFT/Banks with a performance certificate from the supplier.
Note 06: With respect to projects for modernization, the cost of new machinery/equipment/power generators/material handling equipment/conveyors, etc. installed/procured will only be taken for arriving at the project cost for calculation of the amount of financial assistance.
Application Process
Online
Steps for availing assistance:
Step 01: Submit a Detailed project report (DPR) in the prescribed format to the nearest ROs/SROs of the Board through online.
Step 02: Obtain the In-Principle Approval (IPA) for the project from the Board
Step 03: Procure the plant & machinery as per the approval
Step 04: Erect the machinery and establish the unit
Step 05: Obtain Udhyog Aadhaar
Step 06: Register the unit in Coir Board
Step 07: Commence the production
Step 08: Submit the applications within one year after starting the production
For modernization:
The units which have Coir Board registration and have successfully completed 5 years after commencement of production, can apply for availing assistance under this component.
Stage 1 - New Login Registration
Step 01: Click on the link "Apply Now" of the CITUS Scheme.
Step 02: Click on the link "New Login Registration" in the Login.
Step 03: Enter Name, Aadhaar Number, email and Mobile Phone Number as per the format given on the screen
Step 04: PAN number, email, and Mobile Phone Number once entered cannot be changed later in the application form.
Step 05: Now you should select a secret question from the pull-down menu and then type your answer in the next field. Note down the secret question and the answer immediately.
Step 06: You should now choose your User Name (minimum 8 characters and maximum 15 characters, numbers are allowed and no special characters are allowed).
Step 07: Enter the Given Security PIN displayed on the screen.
Step 08: You can now finalize the above details by clicking the CONFIRM Button. Remember, the email-id already used by anyone else for online application submission cannot be used again.
Step 09: Immediately you will receive your username and password by email/SMS.
Note: In the Future, all communications will be sent to this email and Mobile Number Only
Stage-2 Submit Detailed Project Report (DPR):
Step 01: In the login, type your user name and password received through email/SMS and click "Sign In"
Step 02: Immediately you will be asked to change your password. Here you should set a new password and confirm it. Remember, the password is case-sensitive and the password should contain a minimum 8 characters.
Step 03: After successful login, You will be redirected to your Home Page.
Step 04: Expand the Scheme CITUS by clicking on the + symbol
Step 05: Click on the Link Detailed project Report and fill the Report as per the given Format
Step 06: After submitting the Form, you will get a registration Number.
Step 07: You will receive an SMS/email when the Coir Board Approves/Rejects your DPR (IPA) so that you can submit an online Application.
Stage - 3 Application status:
You can check your application status on the website by login to your Home Page with your username and Password.
Keep visiting your home page of www.coirservices.gov.in for the latest developments in your application
Documents Required
Udyog Aadhar Number
Details of Registration under Coir Board Registration Rules 2008
PAN & Aadhaar Number of the Applicant
Detailed Project Report
If the Partnership concerned, the registered partnership deed is attested by a notary.
If Company, copies of the Registration Certificate from Registrar of Companies and Memorandum of Association & Articles of Association.
If Co-operative Society, a copy of the registration certificate issued by the competent authority/Registrar of Co-operative Societies.
If NGO/ SHG, a copy of the registration certificate issued by the competent authority may be attached.
In the case of Procurement of Machinery, Attested copies of bills, payment receipts, performance guarantee from the machinery manufacturer, documents from the electricity authority, and validation certificate from a Chartered accountant are to be attached. 
Details of IPA received from Coir Board
Details of commencement of production
Bank account details
Copy of the sanction letter and techno financial appraisal of the bank /financial institution
Certificate to be issued by Chartered Accountant
An undertaking to the effect that the applicant has neither applied for nor availed of assistance under these programmes/components will have to be furnished while applying for assistance.
If original documents are pledged with banks, the copies, duly attested by the Manager of the bank, have to be submitted with the application for assistance.
Any other document, as required
Note: Machinery/equipment shall be of BIS/Coir Board Standards.
