Entrepreneurship Development by SC & ST Women in Science Technology Engineering Mathematics
Kerala
EntrepreneurshipFellowshipFinancial SupportSCSTUnemployedWoman
Details
The “Entrepreneurship Development by SC & ST Women in Science Technology Engineering Mathematics (ED/SC-ST- WISTEM)” is aimed for exploring the potential of entrepreneurship along with improvement in the livelihood options for unemployed Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC & ST) women in Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) areas using tools of Science, Technology, and Innovation.
Objective:
Creates opportunities for unemployed SC-ST women in STEM areas to become Techno-entrepreneurs to improve their livelihood using various aspects of Science, Technology, and Innovation.
Encourage/Promote the commercial potential of marketable products/technologies with appropriate Technology Readiness Level (TRL) for enterprise creation in:
       a) Indigenous /traditional knowledge practices
       b) Agriculture (bio-inputs, pest and disease control, value addition)
       c) Food, Nutrition, and Health /Pharmaceuticals/health products
       d) Waste Management/Recycling/Bioremediation
       e) Electrical/ Electronic utility items 

Benefits
Financial support will be for an amount of ₹20 Lakhs including institutional overheads for a period of one year.
The grant will cover Fellowship @ ₹35,000/- per month + 10% HRA (for M.Sc & M.Tech); ₹45,000/- per month + HRA (for Ph.D.); Capital Cost ≤ 25% of project cost (which includes minor equipment, infrastructure, rent ); Operational Cost ≤ 30% of project cost (consumables & outsource Services cost); contingency ≤ apart from institutional overhead (≤10%- subject to a maximum of ₹1.00 Lakh only).
In the first phase, Full Capital Cost, six months of the fellowship, 50% Operational Cost and 50% of Institutional overhead will be released to the host institution at the time of implementation of programme as soon as the start of programme is intimated to KSCSTE by the host institution.
In the second phase, 30% of the grant will be released (without institutional overhead), after 6 months of evaluation of the programme.
In the third phase, the remaining 20% of the grant and 50% of institutional overhead will be released after the successful completion of programme and submission of relevant documents to KSCSTE including onsite evaluation.
The institutional overhead (10% of project cost) is subject to a maximum of ₹1.00 Lakh only.
Maximum number of grants awarded per year would be 3 - 5 across all subject areas.
Note: After a period of one year, the extension of programme period is not encouraged. Only in rare and exceptional cases, depending on the necessity and progress of programme, no-cost extension will be considered. Such a period of extension will be limited to a maximum of six months.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Indian citizen and SC & ST woman in the Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) areas of Kerala State.
The upper age limit for financial support for the programme would be ≥50 years.
The applicant should hold a Ph.D. degree in Science or Technology or Engineering; or M.Sc. degree in Basic Science/Natural Science; or an M.Tech degree in Science/Technology /Engineering.
The applicant should initially identify the Institution and mentor. Alternatively, the application submission could be by nomination from the Head of S&T Institutions across Kerala.
The host institutions can be Academic Institutions (Central and state), University Departments, Colleges recognized with R&D facilities, DSIR-recognized institutions in Kerala, or Institutions with appropriate R&D facilities. The mentor should be a regular faculty of the host institute.
The application form along with required documents should be submitted in PDF format during the call opening period.
Co-mentorship for the program is encouraged. The Co-mentor of the host institution or other Organization must have an experience in enterprise creation.
The applicant selected for the programme should join the host institute within 15 days of receiving the initial grant from KSCSTE.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: The call for applications will be notified through print media and the websites/social media handles of KSCSTE (www.kscste.kerala.gov.in).
Step 02: The application should be submitted as per KSCSTE notification using appropriate web links provided on the website.
Step 03: Following the proposal submission guidelines, the applicant can directly submit applications/proposals to KSCSTE. Alternatively, the application submission can be done through nomination from the Head of S&T Institutions across Kerala.
Nomination:
Step 01: In the case of nomination, technical documents (and other required documents) along with recommendation letters from the Head of Institution must be submitted to KSCSTE.
Step 02: For nomination, KSCSTE will be sending prior information about the call of proposals to the Institutional authorities across the state for nominating eligible candidates for participation in the programme.
Step 03: Selection will be based on the evaluation of nominations received subject to recommendations of the Expert Committee constituted for the purpose by KSCSTE and final approval by competent authorities of KSCSTE.
Step 04: Merit of the proposal will be considered as the major criterion for the evaluation process. The merit of the proposal is assessed based on Key Points like (a) Need (solutions) (b) Social/commercial potential (c) Technical viability (d) Team strength (e) Business plan (e) TRL with measurable indicators.
Note: Application that doesn't follow the guidelines will be summarily rejected.
Contact Details:
Email to: meetwomen.kscste@gmail.com
Documents Required
Identity proof of applicant
Technical Document (Maximum 3-4 pages only)
Biodata of the applicant
Endorsement Letter from Head of Institution
Consent Letter from Mentor and Co-Mentor if any
Undertaking of Project Scientist (after joining)
Age proof Certificate (Class X mark sheet or birth certificate)
SC/ST Certificate from Tahsildar
Letter from the Head of Institution (applicable to those candidates, if the application submitted to KSCSTE is by nomination by the Head of Institution)
