Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana
Odisha
DBTScholarship
Details
Launched in the year 2013-14, "Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana" is a scheme by the Department of Higher Education, Govt. of Odisha. In this scheme, ₹ 30,000/- per student is transferred directly to the bank accounts of 15,000 meritorious +2 students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for the purchase of laptop. The allocation earmarked to SC & ST students in a particular stream is bifurcated between SC and ST as per the ratio 16.25:22.5, which is also the reservation ratio in employment in the State. The scheme is applicable to students from the CHSE Board, and Upshastri Students passing from Shree Jagannath Sanskrit University, Puri.

Benefits
An amount of ₹ 30,000/- per student is transferred directly to the bank accounts of 15,000 meritorious +2 students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for the purchase of laptop.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident/domicile of the state of Odisha.
The application should be a +2 Passout from the Council of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha.
The students clearing the Upshastri Exam from Shree Jagannath Sanskrit University, Puri are also eligible.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/
Step 2: Click on "Registration".
Step 3: Read the Instructions/Declaration carefully. 
Step 4: Select the Checkbox and Click "I Agree".
Step 5: On the next page, provide your Aadhaar Number, Mobile Number, and all the mandatory fields: Name, Gender, Date of Birth, and Email ID. Click "Register".

You will be successfully registered on the portal. Your login details will be displayed on the confirmation page.
Your login credentials will also be sent to the registered Mobile Number and Email ID.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/. Click "Login". Now click on "Student Login". Login using the credentials received on your Email ID / Mobile Number.
Step 2: Click on the "Schemes And Scholarship" section. Optionally, you can check your eligibility for the scheme by clicking "View Eligibility". Else click "Online Application Module For Scholarship And Loan". 
Step 3: Select "Biju Yuva Sashaktikaran Yojana" from the dropdown menu. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the said file type and filesize.
Step 4: Click "Submit". Take two printed hard copies of the online application along with relevant documents, and submit the same to the Principal/ Head of the Institution for further processing.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of the Student
Residence Certificate of the Student
Caste Certificate (if applicable)
Passbook of Bank Account with Account Number and IFSC Code of the Bank Branch
Passport Size Photograph of Student
ID Card of the Student
Marksheet / Passing Certificate of Class 12th.
Admit Card / Hall Ticket of CHSE Exam or Sanskrit Exam.
