Teachers Associateship for Research Excellence
Ministry Of Science And Technology
FacultyFellowshipResearchSERBTARETeacher
Details
The scheme “Teachers Associateship for Research Excellence (TARE)” was launched by the Science and Engineering Research Board, Department of Science & Technology, Government of India which aims to facilitate the mobility of faculty members working in a regular capacity in State Universities / Colleges and in private Academic Institutions to carry out research work in an established public-funded central institution such as IITs, IISc, IISERS, National Institutions (NITs, CSIR, ICAR, ICMR labs and other central institutions) and Central Universities, located preferably nearer to the institution where the faculty member is working. Research work will be carried out in such a manner to ensure that the PI continues to work in the host institute as well as his / her parent institute on mutually agreed terms between the PI and Mentor.
Areas Covered under the scheme:
The scheme covers areas under Life Sciences, Physical Sciences, Chemical Sciences, Engineering Sciences, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, and Mathematical Sciences, including interdisciplinary areas.
Duration of Support:
The duration of support is three years.

Benefits
Research fellowship of ₹60,000/- per year (in addition to the researcher’s own salary) will be provided subject to completion of a minimum of 90 days of research work per year in the host institution.
Research grant of ₹5 lakhs per annum (50% each to host and parent institution) and overheads (as per SERB norms) will be provided.
Eligibility
Indian citizens residing in India holding a Ph.D. degree in Science/Engineering or MS/MD in Medicine are eligible to apply.
The applicant(s) must hold a regular academic/research position in State Universities/ Colleges and private Academic Institutions.
Applicant should not hold any ongoing research projects or any fellowship at the time of submission of application.
The upper age limit for the award is 45 years at the time of the submission of the application. Age relaxation of 5 (five) years will be given to candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC/Physically Challenged & Women candidates.
Mentor should be at the level of Associate Professor/Scientist E, or higher level.
Only one candidate will be allowed to work with a mentor at any given point of time. 
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The call for proposals will be notified through the website www.serbonline.in and www.serb.gov.in
Step 02: Applicant(s) should first register on the online website.  Click here to register
Step 03: After login, the applicant(s) are required to fill all the mandatory fields in the Profile Detail section under User Profile, which includes Bio-data, Photo, and Institute Address, etc.
Step 04: Summary of the project proposal; Project Title (max 500 characters), Abstract of the proposed work (max 3000 characters), Keywords (max 6), Objectives of the project (max 1500 characters), Expected output and outcome of the proposal (max 1500 characters), have to be entered at the time of proposal submission.
Step 05: Other relevant information of the proposal must be uploaded in a single PDF file not more than 10 MB as other technical documents (OTD).
Note: The proposals will be evaluated through peer review processes as per SERB guidelines.
Documents Required
1. Passport size photograph
2. Biodata of the applicant (under the user profile section)
3. Other technical details of the proposal
4. Certificate from the Investigator
5. Endorsement certificate from the Head of Parent Institution
6. Endorsement Letter from the Head of the host Institution
7. CV of the Mentor
8. Category certificate
9. Age proof certificate
10. Joining report
11. Mandatory 90 days attendance certificate by the end of the financial year
12. Plagiarism undertaking
