YSR Pension Kanuka
Andhra Pradesh
PensionPerson With DisabilitySenior CitizenTransgenderWidow
Details
"YSR Pension Kanuka" is a Social Security Scheme by the Panchayat Raj & Rural Development Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of this scheme is to ameliorate the hardships of the poor and vulnerable sections of society particularly the old and infirm, widows, and persons with disability to secure a dignified life. In 2019, the department enhanced the pension amount of Old Age Pension (OAP), Widow, Weavers, Toddy Tappers, Fishermen, Single Women, Traditional Cobblers, and PLHIV (ART Pensions ) categories to ₹ 2,250/-, Disabled Pensions to ₹ 3,000/-, CKDU/Dialysis Pensions to ₹ 10,000/-, and also reduced the age for Old Age Pensioners (OAP) from 65 to 60 years. The Eligibility Criteria have been revised so that the benefit of pension shall be reached all sections of the needy people.

Benefits
Monthly Pension of ₹ 2,250/- for Old Age, Widow, Weavers, Toddy Tappers, Fishermen, Single Women, Traditional Cobblers, and PLHIV (ART Pensions ) categories.
Monthly Pension of ₹ 3,000/- for Persons with Disability.
Monthly Pension of ₹ 10,000/- for Persons on CKDU/Dialysis.
In the event of death of Old Age, Weaver, Fishermen, Toddy toppers, or Disabled category pensioners, the pension will be sanctioned to Spouse (wife) to support the family. The pension amount will be released on par with Widow Category Pension. 
Eligibility
Common Eligibility For All Categories Of Pensions:
Total family income should be less than ₹ 10,000/- per month in Rural areas and ₹ 12,000/- per month in Urban Areas.
The total land holding of the family should be less than 3.00 acres of wet (or) 10.00 acres of dry (or) 10.00 acres of both wet and dry land together. 
Family should not own a four-wheeler (Taxis, Tractors, and Autos are exempted). 
No family member should be a Government employee or Pensioner. 
The monthly electricity consumption of a family dwelling unit (own/rent) should be less than 300 units.
Family in municipal areas who owns less than 750 sq. ft. of built-up area. 
No family member should be an income tax payee.
One pension will be allowed in the family except in the following conditions: 
    a)   Family having a disabled person with 80% and above degree of disability. 
    b)   Dialysis patients (CKDU) / Severe Mental Retardation/ PLHIV (ART). 
    c)   Pensions sanctioned vide GO Rt.No.551 HM&FW Department, dated 26.10.2019 and Memo No: 3033401/D1/2019, of HM&FW Department, dt:08.11.2019.

Category Wise Eligibility:
Old Age (ST): 50 years and above.
Old Age (other than ST): 60 years and above.
Widow: 18 Years and above
Disabled (40% and above): No age limit.
Weavers: 50 years and above.
Toddy Tappers: 50 years and above. (Members of Toddy Co-operative Societies (TCS) or to an individual tapper under the Tree For Tappers 
(TFT) Scheme)
ART pensions (PLHIV): 6 months continuous treatment in ART (Anti-Retroviral Therapy) Centre. 
Dialysis Pension (CKDU): No age limit. Every month Dialysis treatment taken at Government / Private Hospitals. 
Transgender: 18 Years and above.
Fishermen: 50 Years and above.
Single Women (Rural): 30 years and above.
Single Women (Urban): 35 years and above.
Dappu Artists: 50 years and above.
Traditional Cobblers: 40 years and above.
For persons with diseases of Thalassemia Major, Sickle Cell disease, Severe Haemophilia (<2% of factor 8 or 9) Bilateral Elephantiasis-Grade 4: No age limit. 
For persons with diseases of Paralysis confining the person to a wheelchair or bed and Severe muscular dystrophy cases and accident victims confined to wheelchairs or beds: No age limit.
Chronic Kidney Disease patients (Stage3,4 &5) who are not on dialysis and are having the conditions given below: No age limit.
   a)    Serum creatinine of >5mg Consistently on two separate occasions with at least 3 months gap (in Government lab).
   b)    Small contacted kidney on sonographic evaluation (less than 8cm) 
   c)    Estimated GFR <15 ml. 

Reservation / Preference / Priority:
SC households. 
Practicing Artisans (Weavers, Toddy Tappers, Barbers, Washer men, 
Potters, Blacksmith, Carpenter, Cobbler, Animal herders, Village Artists, etc) and other Back Ward Classes. 
Daily laborers (Daily wage laborers, Agricultural Labourers, Migrated laborers). 
Nomadic Tribes have no permanent residence. 
Households with destitute / orphans. 
Households with Disabled. 
Other poor Households.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The Village/Ward Volunteers will identify the persons eligible for social security pension under YSR Pension Kanuka.
Step 2: The Village/Ward Volunteers will take up physical verification (Social Audit) with respect to eligibility conditions prescribed for each category of live pension. 
Step 3: The Village/Ward Volunteers will make relevant recommendations, and forward them to Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) / Municipal Commissioner (MC). 
Step 4: The MPDO/MC reviews the application and makes the relevant recommendations and forwards the application to the Extension Officer (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development).
Step 5: The E.O.(PR&RD) verifies the application and makes the relevant recommendations. 
Step 6: Based on recommendations made by the E.O.(PR&RD) and the applicant’s eligibility as mentioned in the Scheme Eligibility Calculator, the Social Audit lists namely the Provisional eligible list and Reverification list (with reasons for ineligibility) are published in all secretariats. 
Step 7: The citizens in the Reverification list can raise a grievance if they think that the reason mentioned for ineligibility is incorrect. 
Step 8: The final list of Eligible and Ineligible Beneficiaries is published in all secretariats. 
Step 9: The citizens mentioned in the Final Ineligible list can raise a grievance in Citizen Schemes Portal if he/she thinks that the reason for rejection is incorrect. 
Step 10: The scheme benefit is disbursed to all eligible beneficiaries through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). The acknowledgment of receipt of the payment by the beneficiary is done by the Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS using eKYC (Biometric Authentication).
Documents Required
Aadhar Card (Aadhar details will be matched with ration card data)
Death Certificates of Husband (in case of Widow Pension)
Certificate of Disability (SADAREM) (in case of Disabled Pension)
Toddy Tapper Certificate (from the Excise Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh)
Weavers Certificate (Occupation Certificate from the Handloom Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh)
Caste Certificate (if applicable)
Children Certificates (Study Certificate) 
Proof of Age / Date of Birth
Marriage Certificate
Medical Board Certificate
Proof of Treatment in ART (Anti-Retroviral Therapy) Centre (in case of ART Pension)
Gender Identity Certificate (issued by the competent medical authority) (in case of Transgender applicant)
Certificate from the Department of Fisheries (in case of Fisherman applicant)

Other Documents (NOT to be submitted by the applicant):
Proof reg. Dappu Artists will be furnished by the Social welfare Department (as per G.O.Rt. No 199, Social welfare Dept., dated 30.06.18). 
Proof reg. Traditional Cobblers will be furnished by the Social welfare Department (as per G.O.Ms.No.19, Social welfare Dept., dated 12.11.18).
Proof reg. persons with diseases of Thalassemia Major, Sickle Cell disease, Severe Haemophilia (<2% of factor 8 or 9) Bilateral Elephantiasis-Grade 4, 
beneficiaries’ data will be shared by the HM&FW Department with the CEO, SERP, A.P. 
Proof reg. persons with diseases of Paralysis confining the person to a wheelchair or bed and Severe muscular dystrophy cases and accident victims confined to a wheelchair or bed, the beneficiary's data will be shared with the CEO, SERP, A.P from the SADAREM database and to be verified at the filed level by the Medical Officer.
Proof reg. Chronic Kidney Disease patients (Stage3,4 &5) who are not on dialysis, the beneficiary's data will be shared by the HM&FW Department with the CEO, SERP, A.P.
