Grant-in-aid (TB)
Mizoram
DBTFinancial AssistanceGrantSC/STTB
Details
No.G.11012/7/93-HFW dt. 4thJune’97: stated that whereas the State Government is of
the opinion to make a set of rules for granting financial assistance in the form of Grant-in-Aid
to a person having no employment under the Government, Public Sector undertaking or
under any local bodies may qualify to receive the grand suffering from fell disease as
specified below, the Governor of Mizoram is pleased to make the following rules namely:

Short Titlement and Commencement:
These rules may be called the Mizoram Health & Family Welfare (Grant-in-Aid to
indigent Schedule Tribes and Scheduled Castes patients suffering from fell diseases)
Rules 1997. They shall come into force with effect from the date of its publication in the Mizoram
Gazette.

Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes persons permanently residing within the
State of Mizoram none of whose family members are Government employees and whose
family income from all sources does not exceed Rs.2000/- per month and suffering from fell
diseases are eligible to receive the grant.

Benefits
The grant-in-aid shall be given in cash or by means of a Bank Draft.
The grant-in-aid shall be made subject to the availability of found and cannot be claimed as a matter of right.
The amount of grant-in-aid shall be limited to the actual cost of treatment and fare as per the cheapest route available subject to the maximum of Rs.2500/- per head.
Eligibility
Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes persons permanently residing within the State of Mizoram
None of whose family members are Government employees and whose family income from all sources does not exceed Rs.2000/- per month and who suffering from fell diseases are eligible to receive the grant.
Application Process
Offline
The application shall be forwarded by the Medical Officer i/c of the locality.
The authenticity of the residence of the person shall have to be certified by the Village Council President and Block Development Officer concerned and the Medical Board shall examine the patient and issue certificate according to.
Documents Required
Caste Certificate
Aadhaar card 
Income proof 
Candidates' bank account details
