Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana
Gujarat
KalyanVanbandhuVanbandhu Kalyan YojanaVKY
Details
Vanbandhu Kalyan Yojana focuses on integrated, holistic and inclusive development of tribal communities. It aims at creation of quality social and civil infrastructure, and sustainable livelihood, employment & entrepreneurship in tribal areas such that the income of every tribal family doubles. The approach is mission mode implementation of need-based outcome-oriented projects that improve the quality of life of tribal people and bring happiness and prosperity.

Ten Points-Focus areas of VKY

Employment opportunities
Emphasis on Quality Education & Higher Education
Economic Development
Health
Housing
Safe drinking water
Irrigation
Universal Electrification
All-Weather Road Connectivity
Urban development

Benefits
Double the income of all tribal families, with a special focus on the migrant families and the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups
Increas in animal husbandry and dairy based activities
Access to quality education for every eligible tribal child and increased emphasis on higher education.
Double the income of all tribal families including migrant tribal families and Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups
Support the socio-economic development of all tribal families by providing access to necessary amenities for a healthy living.
Provide a house to each tribal family, including those from Particularly Venerable Tribal Groups,
provide access to safe drinking water to all tribal families
Assured income from agriculture to all tribal farmers 
Ensure universal electrification for all Scheduled Tribe households and villages for improved quality of life and economic development.
Promote wealth creation in tribal areas and improve the quality of life of all tribal families.
Develop tribal towns as growth engines to augment the income of tribal families.
Eligibility
Beneficiary must be from Tribal Category. 
Must belong to BPL group.
Application Process
Offline
The citizen need not apply to the scheme.
Documents Required
Tribal Category document
BPL certificate
Land related document in case of availing benefit. 
Aadhar Card
