Lakshadweep Scholarship Scheme
Lakshadweep
EducationHigher EducationScholarship
Details
The Lakshadweep Scholarship Scheme an initiative by the Department of Education under the Ministry of Human Resource Development, aims to provide financial assistance to students from the Lakshadweep union territory. This program will alleviate financial burdens and empower students to pursue their educational aspirations.

Benefits

Name of the Courses Scholarship Amount
Pre-degree courses, Post Matric certificate courses, Post Matric Diploma courses, Degree Courses in Arts, Science, commerce, B.Ed., LLB etc. Rate of monthly scholarship ₹ 1,800/-, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 1,500/-
Post Graduate course in Arts, Science, Commerce, Law etc. Rate of monthly scholarship ₹ 2,100/-, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 1,800/-
MBBS, BDS, Engineering Degree, MBA, BVSC, BSC(Agriculture) etc. Rate of monthly scholarship ₹  2,100/-, Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 3,600/-
Post Graduate Course in Medicine, Engineering and Veterinary Science, Agriculture etc. and Research Studies like Ph.D. Rate of monthly scholarship ₹ 3,000/- , Rate of lump sum grant ₹ 9,000/-
High school courses or equivalent. ₹ 1,200/- per month
Primary school courses (1 to VIII)  ₹ 600/- per month
Secondary school courses (VIII to X) ₹ 200/- per month
Plus two students to whom course facilities are available in the island of which the student is native ₹ 450/- per month
Students of Bitra Island studying in Secondary Std. in other Island ₹ 450/- per month
Students of Plus 2 courses who belong to other islands than where the Institutions is situated and staying outside hostel for want of hostel accommodation ₹ 750/- per month
 Students of high school staying outside hostel for want of accommodation in the hostel ₹ 600/- per month
Eligibility
Both parents and the student must be born in Lakshadweep or have one parent from Lakshadweep.
The student and the Islander parent must reside in the Islands.
Scholars cannot receive other scholarships, must surrender any awards, and repay funds received.
Retention of concessions granted by the institution or administration is allowed.
Scholars can pursue courses in Arts, Science, Engineering, Medicine, Agriculture, Law, or Commerce in recognized Indian institutions.
Educational concessions on the mainland are only for studies not available in the Islands.
Stipends may be granted or renewed for health reasons or disability.
Application Process
Online
The applications are invited on the National Scholarship Portal (NSP) (https://scholarships.gov.in/) in the month of April every year. 
Registration for New Applicant
Open the official NSP website and click on New Registration under Applicant Corner. 
Read the Instruction /Guidelines, provide the under taking by click on Check box and click on Continue.
Start the registration by Mobile OTP and get the Registration ID. 
Submit required document.

Registered Applicant 
Open the official NSP website and click on Fresh Application under Applicant Corner
Login with application ID & password.
Select the Scholarship. 
Fill out the applicant form.
Upload the required documents.
Submit.
For future reference, a system-generated registration number is sent to the students.
Documents Required
Domicile Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Educational Certificate.
Caste Certificate.
Aadhaar Card.
Bank Passbook.
Passport Size Photograph.
