Educational Assistance to Children of Women Headed Families
Kerala
BPLChildrenEducational AssistancePriority FamilyScholarshipWoman
Details
The scheme “Educational Assistance to Children of Women Headed Families” was launched by the Social Justice Department, Government of Kerala. The number of women-headed families in Kerala is very high. The majority of these families are living in deplorable conditions. The scheme proposes to extend a helping hand to these families by providing financial assistance for children's education. The women belong to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families/Priority families (Children of HIV/AIDS affected persons, socially discriminated persons, war widows, etc. are eligible irrespective of their BPL status). A family in which the husband of a woman is bedridden and unable to cover livelihood, due to stroke/or spinal injury can also get benefits under this scheme.

Benefits
1. Category I - Children below 5 years and between 1st to 5th standard: ₹300/- per month
2. Category II - Between 6th to 10th standard: ₹500/- per month
3. Category III - Plus one (11th Standard) & Plus two (12th Standard): ₹750/- per month
4. Category IV - Degree and above: ₹1000/- per month
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State.
The applicant should belong to the Below Poverty Line Family.
HIV/AIDS-affected persons, socially discriminated persons, war widows, etc. are eligible irrespective of their BPL status.
A family in which the husband of the woman is bedridden and not able to cover livelihood, due to stroke/or spinal injury is eligible to apply under the scheme.
Only two children’s per family are eligible for this scheme.
The child should study in Government or Government aided School or College.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant should visit the nearest Anganwadi, Child Development Project Office, or social justice office in Kerala state. Application Form
Step 02: The application form can collected from the Child Development Project Officer through Anganwadi Workers or it can be downloaded from the Official Website of the Social Justice Department, Kerala.
Step 03: The duly filled application form along with the documents prescribed will be forwarded to the concerned District Social Justice Office, Kerala.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar card etc.
Passport-size photograph
Below Poverty Line (BPL) card
Residence proof
Ration card
Educational details of the child (previous exam mark sheet and bonafide certificate)
Bank account details
A certificate from the head of the educational institution where the child studies that the child is not availing of any other scholarship.
