Programme For Internship For LL.B./ LL.M./ Environmental Studies/ Research Students
Ministry Of Law and Justice
EnvironmentInternshipLegalResearchStudent
Details
The National Green Tribunal provides opportunities to college students by holding Summer Internship Programs (March, April, May and July ordinarily) and Winter Internship Programs (November, December and January ordinarily) Internship Programs for LL.B./ LL.M./ Environmental Studies/ Research Students.

Duration
The duration of the Internship will be 4 Weeks ordinarily.
The duration and timing of the internship may be altered by the Competent Authority as and when necessary.

Number of Slots
 The maximum number of slots to be offered to the students shall be decided by the Competent Authority.

Benefits
Certificate
A certificate will be issued to the Intern at the end of her/his internship after evaluation of the research paper or assessment of the work done. 

Guide
A guide will be assigned to each intern for their study during the internship.

Remuneration
The National Green Tribunal pays no remuneration/expenses.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a student pursuing three-year and five-year law degree courses in environmental studies/law from any recognized College/Law School/University in India.
Application Process
Online
These applications may be sent either by post or by hand in the prescribed format to reach the office of the Registrar General, National Green Tribunal (Principal Bench), Faridkot House, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi- 110001. The applications can also be mailed to rg.ngt@nic.in.

Deadline
Interested candidates may send their applications in the enclosed format, by 1st February (in case of the Summer Internship Programme) and by 1st October (in case of the Winter Internship Programme).

NOTE 1: Applications received after the last date may not be considered and no correspondence will be entertained in this regard. 
NOTE 2: Incomplete applications will not be entertained.
Documents Required
At the Time of Joining - 
The students will have to produce a recommendation/no-objection letter from their Director or Head of Department.

At the Time of Completion of the Internship - 
Interns will be required to present a research paper/report on a selected topic at the end of their study and also undergo other studies assigned and prepare notes on it and submit to the concerned officer for evaluation and Suggestions, if any, by the Commission.
