Scheme For Campus Accommodation & Facilities Enhancing Social Experience
Ministry of Education
AccomodationInstitution
Details
Introduction
"Scheme for Campus Accommodation & Facilities Enhancing Social Experience (CAFES)" was introduced by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Department of Higher Education (DoHE), to provide financial assistance for construction of hostel to create a congenial study atmosphere free from the shackles of domestic shores so as to encourage students to purse their education career without dropping out. 

Objective
(a) The scheme is initiated to facilitate continuation of education and also interaction between the students beyond class hours for their all-around development.
(b) The scheme aims to support Government/ Government-aided engineering colleges/ University departments/ Polytechnics for construction of hostel for providing residential accommodation for students/researchers.
(c) This AICTE scheme also allows extension of existing hostels in the institute by additional construction work to benefit the students.
(d) This scheme has three variants addressing the needs of:
(i) CAFES - SC/ST students
(ii) CAFES – NER (Institute located in North Eastern Region)
(iii) CAFES – Differently Abled students

Benefits
Limit of Funding from AICTE: ₹ 3.25 crore

(a) Construction of Hostel: ₹ 3,00,00,000
(b) Establishment of Gym equipment: ₹ 5,00,000
(c) Establishment of Indoor sports club: ₹ 10,00,000
(d) Establishment of the library for preparation of tests for competitive examination/higher education: ₹ 10,00,000

Disbursement of the Funds

(a) Disbursement of 50% of the amount (1st installment) in advance upon sanction of the proposal, out of funds for the construction of the hostel.

(b) Disbursement of 40% of the amount (2nd installment), out of funds for the construction of the hostel on utilization of the 1st installment to be released only after spot inspection carried out by an Evaluation Committee comprising of two engineers (one each from Civil & Architect) from AICTE approved panel to be organized by concerned RO AICTE. The EVC report should contain all the mandatory documents.

(c) Disbursement of the remaining 10% of the amount (3rd installment), out of funds for the construction of the hostel on submitting a completion certificate by registered Civil Engineer/ Architect/ PWD and submission of all other mandatory documents as mentioned in the sanction letters and the parameter of the scheme. 

In addition to this, funds for the establishment of the gym, indoor sports club, and the establishment of library would be granted on submission of a proper quotation at a competitive rate after the release of the 2nd installment amount and handing over the building in all respects.
Eligibility
(a) AICTE approved Government/ Government-aided engineering colleges/University departments/ Polytechnics are entitled to the grant (The Institutes located in Punjab, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland & UTs are not covered under CAFES – SC/ST students scheme) 
(b) The Institute must be in existence for the last five years 
(c) The Institute must have more than:
CAFES (SC/ST students) – 200 SC/ST students on roll.
CAFES (NER) – 60 students on a roll per year.
CAFES (Differently abled students) - 150 Differently abled students.

Terms and Conditions
(a) Annual Progress Report should be submitted within 2 months of completion of the year.
(b) After completion of the project, a Project Completion Report should be submitted.
(c) Utilization Certificate and Statement of Accounts in prescribed proforma duly audited by the Finance Officer/Account Officer.
(d) If the construction work is not initiated within six months then the amount is to be refunded to AICTE with accrued interest with justification for not being able to start.
(e) Any change in the construction plan leading to a reduction in the facilities or area would not be allowed.
Application Process
Offline
1. Kindly visit AICTE Web Portal and log in through Institute's Login Credential (Username & Password).
2. Select the Scheme to apply i.e. CAFES scheme application.
3. To fill out the application form, kindly refer to the validating User Manual on the AICTE website.
4. After completion, click on SUBMIT.
5. Verify that every page of the application form has the signature and stamp of the Institute’s Head.
6. After submitting the application form, click on reports.
7. In Run Report, select CAFES 2021-22 and submit (download the report).
8. Upload all the essential documents along with the online application form.

Kindly ensure all the information is correct and then send the Application form along with all the essential documents through registered post/ speed post to:

Dr. Neeraj Saxena, Advisor 
Institutional DevelopmentCell
All India Council for Technical Education,
Nelson Madela Marg, Vasant Kunj, 
New Delhi - 110070
Documents Required
Hostel Plan
Abstract of the estimates
PWD rate certificate
The enrolment figures given above are as per official records and depict the actual physical strength of students in that particular year. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure A)
Two copies of the plan and detailed estimates duly signed by the Engineer/Architect and countersigned by the Principal.
Conformity with the norms as suggested by the AICTE and the rates are as per CSR of the region. The minimum carpet area should not be less than 1200 sqm. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure B)
A certificate from the college indicating the covered area in sq. meters cost per sq. meter, the basis of the estimates on the rates/schedule of rate, the period for the completion of the project, and the likely date of starting the construction. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure C)
Land ownership and possession certificate from the concerned Tehsildar /SDM duly countersigned by the Principal. Also, a certificate from the Principal to the effect that the land is free from any litigation, clear from Forest Dept. Norms and also whether the institute comes under Urban/Rural area. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure D)
Mode of construction viz. Contract/ Departmentally (at most competitive rates) or Deposit work by the PWD.
A certificate from the competent authority (concerned Secretary, State Government for Technical Education) that expenditure over and above AICTE grant, if any, will be met by the State Govt./ or the college, and the construction will not be delayed for want of funds. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure E)
A certificate from a competent structural engineer to certify the structural soundness of the structure to bear the load of the proposed building and soil test report etc. (Proforma enclosed in Annexure F)
