Motorisation Of Traditional Crafts
Odisha
BoatCraftsFinancial AssistanceFishFishermen
Details
The scheme “Motorisation of Traditional Crafts” was launched by the Department of Fisheries & Animal Resources Development, Government of Odisha to increase the catch per voyage and incomes of traditional fishermen.
Objective:
To increase the marine fish production from the State.
To increase the income and livelihoods of traditional fishermen by motorizing their traditional non-motorized crafts.
Implementation Target & Area Of Operation:
The scheme shall be implemented by the Additional Fisheries Officer (Marine)/DFO (B&T), Balugaon in seven maritime districts of the State. The district-wise annual target shall be communicated by the Director of Fisheries at the beginning of the financial year. The target is interchangeable depending on the progress made by the District Level Officers.

Benefits
1. Unit Cost and Subsidy Assistance are to be provided to the eligible beneficiary as under:
Sl. No. Type of Engine HP of Engine Approximate Unit Cost in INR Maximum Admissible Subsidy (40% for General Category) Maximum Admissible Subsidy (60% for SC/ST Category)
1 IBM/OBM Up-to 100 HP 1,40,000 56,000 84,000
2. Financial Assistance shall be limited to 1 (one) unit per individual beneficiary.
3. Back-ended subsidy will be limited to 60% for SC/ST and 40% for General Category on the actual cost of the boat engine as per the GST bills.
4. Subsidy should be released directly to the Aadhaar-linked Bank Account of the beneficiary.
Eligibility
The following are the eligibility criteria of the beneficiary:
The applicant must be a permanent resident of Odisha and must possess identity and residential proof including Aadhaar Card.
The applicant must have Bank Account in his/her name in the State of Odisha.
The applicant must be a traditional marine active fisherman.
The applicant must not have availed subsidy for the purchase of an engine under any Government scheme in the last five years.
The applicant must possess a traditional non-motorized fishing boat/traditional motorized fishing boat duly registered in Odisha.
The applicant must possess a valid ownership certificate, Registration certificate, and Fishing license under the ReAL craft for a non-motorized traditional boat or traditional Motorized boat/craft.
The applicant must not have acquired a boat through the transfer of ownership which is motorized under any Government scheme in the last five years availing subsidy by previous owners.
Application Process
Online
Offline
The traditional fishermen having registered non-motorized boats/motorized fishing craft shall apply through the GO-SUGAM Portal through a registration process with requisite documents.
Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website:  https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home
Step 02: Click on “Apply” and then click on “Register Now”.
Step 03: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Name, Email, Mobile Number, Address, and Password) and click on "Register". The login credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID / Mobile Number.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website: https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home
Step 02: Click on “Scheme & Services” and then select the scheme by its name.
Step 03: Click “Apply” and login. https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/citizen-portal/login
Step 04: On the application page, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the appropriate file size and file type. Upon successful submission of the application, you will get an Application Reference ID.
Check Application Status:
Step 01: You can enter the Application ID on the ‘Track Status’ page to check the status of your application.
Step 02: SMS alerts will also be sent to you at each step of the application after submission.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Aadhaar-linked Bank A/C No. with IFS Code for DBT (Photocopy)
Residence proof
Passport-size photographs
Photo ID Card 
Caste Certificate
Boat Registration Certificate/Up-to-date License Certificate
Fishing License
