Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award
Ministry Of Youth Affairs & Sports
AwardSportsYouth
Details
The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India confers the National Adventure Award called “Tenzing Norgay National Adventure Award” (TNNAA) in order to recognize the achievements of persons associated in the field of adventure and to encourage young people to develop the spirit of endurance, risk-taking, cooperative teamwork and quick, ready and effective reflexes in challenging situations.

The award consists of a bronze statuette, a certificate, a blazer with a silken tie/a saree, and award money of ₹ 15,00,000. The Awards are presented to the winners along with Arjuna Awards by the Government of India.

Usually, One Award is given in four categories namely, Land Adventure, Water (Sea) Adventure, Air Adventure, and Life Time Achievement for adventure activities on Land, Sea, and Air. Achievements for the last 3 years are considered for the 3 categories namely Land Adventure, Water (Sea) Adventure, and Air Adventure and for the Life Time Achievement award, the achievement of the entire career is considered.

The nominations for the TNNAA are invited through the portal https://awards.gov.in. Any person having excellent performance and outstanding qualities of leadership, a sense of adventure discipline, and continuous achievement in one particular field of adventure viz. Land, Air, or Water (Sea) may apply for the award through the above portal.

Benefits
The award consists of a bronze statuette, a certificate, a blazer with a silken tie/a saree, and award money of ₹ 15,00,000. The Awards are presented to the winners along with Arjuna Awards by the Government of India.
The Status of the Award will be the same as the Arjuna Awards conferred in the field of Sports by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.'
The Awards will be presented to the winners along with Arjuna Awards by the Government of India.
The Awardees will be reimbursed to and fro airfare (economy class) and such other fare of conveyance as relevant in the journey through the shortest route from his/her place of stay to the place of the award ceremony and back subject to production of the original boarding passes/ Tickets etc. along with duly filled in proforma. Awardees would be given reimbursement for AC 1-tier rail journey if opted.
Awardees will also be provided free boarding and lodging in a suitable place for the award ceremony.
One companion with each lady and the physically handicapped awardee will be provided with the same traveling and boarding/lodging facilities as that of the awardee himself/herself.
Eligibility
CATEGORIES
1. Awards can be given in four categories namely, Land Adventure, Water (Sea) Adventure, Air Adventure, and Life Time Achievement for adventure activities on Land, Sea, and Air.
2. Ordinarily not more than one Award will be made in each category.
3. The Ministry may increase the number of awards in a particular year for specific reasons recorded in writing and with the approval of the Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports.

ELIGIBILITY
A person should have excellent performance and outstanding qualities of leadership, a sense of adventure discipline, and continuous achievement in one particular field of adventure viz. Land, Air, or Water (Sea). 
The award may be given posthumously if such an occasion arises.
Application Process
Online
RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS
1. Entries for the Awards will be received in a Pro-forma Annexed to these guidelines, giving the past performances of the persons recommended in general and for the year of the Award in particular within such date as is specified on year to year basis. The last date of entry may be relaxed at the discretion of the Government of India in exceptional cases.

2. Candidates applying for the award may get their applications recommended by the Youth/ Sports Department of the State Government concerned, or a recognized adventure institute like the Indian Mountaineering Foundation for Land Adventure, National. Institute of Water Sports for Water (Sea) Adventure and Aero Club of India for Air Adventure or by the Adventure Promotion Cell of the Army/ Navy/Air Force or Indo-Tibetan Border Police or similar other para-military forces. However, they may obtain such recommendations and upload the scanned copy themselves while applying online for the award.

3. All nominations in respect of serving personnel of the Army/Navy/Air Force should be recommended by their respective Adventure Cell/Directorate. However, they may obtain such recommendations and upload the scanned copy themselves while applying online for the award.

4. The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports can also nominate any person on its own or seek nominations from such other organizations/agencies as are deemed fit, for this award.

5. The Ministry will receive the applications/ nominations for the award through an online portal, the link for which will be provided on the website of the Ministry at the time of calling for the nominations.

SCRUTINY
1. All the nominations received in the Ministry will be sent categories-wise to the three apex bodies namely, the Indian Mountaineering Foundation, National Institute of Water Sports, and Aero Club of India as defined in the NPYAD Scheme guideline for verifying achievements in Land, Water (Sea) and Air respectively. Upon which they will confirm from official records the achievements/performance of all nominated persons within a maximum 
period of one month of receipt of the nominations from the Ministry.
2. For the first three categories viz. Land, Water (Sea), and Air adventure, and achievements of the last three calendar years will be taken into consideration.

PROCEDURE FOR SELECTION
1. The applications will be first scrutinized at the Division level. Ineligible applications will be discarded at this level. 
2. The eligible applications will be placed before the Committee.
3. The Committee will discuss the achievements of all the applicants and will recommend suitable candidates for the award.
4. The decision of the Government of India in respect of the Award will be final.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address
Proof of Age (10th Marksheet)
Proof reg. the Educational Qualifications (Marksheets, Degree)
Duly Filled and Signed Description of Achievements as per the format given in the scheme guidelines.

If a candidate is selected for the award, he/ she would be required to furnish the following to the Ministry:
a) bank mandate form duly authorized by the bank.
b) high-resolution photographs wherein the candidate is visible performing the adventure activity.
c) measurement for tailoring work.
