Subsidy Scheme For Establishment Of 100 Broiler Birds' Farm For Schedule Caste
Gujarat
Broiler BirdsFinancial AssistancePoultry FarmingScheduled CasteSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Subsidy Scheme for Establishment of 100 Broiler Birds' Farm for Schedule Caste” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare & Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to provide supplementary income to Schedule Caste People of the society. Under this scheme, beneficiaries will have to bring 100 low-input broiler birds, poultry feed, and water & feed utensils. The subsidy will be given 75% (maximum ₹27000/- cash in direct bank account) to the eligible beneficiary.
Terms and conditions of the scheme:-
The beneficiary should have taken poultry-keeping training.
Eligible applications will be sanctioned by the Regional joint director.
The beneficiary should have either its own land or he will have to take land for two years on a lease base.
The beneficiary will have to prepare a poultry shed having a capacity of 100 Sq. feet.
The birds will be given vaccination regularly.
As and when birds get infected, they should be given treatment immediately.
As and when the Government officer visits the farm the beneficiary will have to show income and expenditure statement.
In normal cases, the unit will have to maintain for two years.
In all terms and conditions, the final authority will be the Director of Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar.

Benefits
1. Subsidy will be given 75% of the total unit cost (maximum ₹27000/-) to the beneficiary for the establishment of 100 Broiler birds' Unit.
2. The subsidy amount is directly credited into the bank account of the beneficiary. 
3. The birds will be given vaccination regularly.
Eligibility
The benefits of this scheme will only be given to the adult of Schedule Caste people of the society of Gujarat State.
The beneficiary will have to provide income proof and a caste certificate along with the application.
Females and beneficiaries below the poverty line will be given priority.
The beneficiary should have taken poultry-keeping training.
The beneficiary should have either his/her own land or will have to take land for two years on a lease base.
The beneficiary will have to prepare a poultry shed having a capacity of 100 Sq. feet.
The beneficiary will have to bring 100 low-input broiler birds, poultry feed, and water & feed utensils.
As and when the Government officer visit the farm the beneficiary will have to show income and expenditure statement.
In normal cases, the unit will have to maintain for two years.  
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the nearest Intensive Poultry Development Project Office or District Poultry Extension Centre and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form, attach all the (self-attested) required documents, and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Step 03: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Income Proof Certificate
Below Poverty Line Card (If applicable)
Residence proof
Caste Certificate
Disability Certificate from Competent Authority (if applicable)
Ration Card (if applicable)
Savings Account Bank Passbook or Cancelled Check
