Single Point Registration Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Micro EnterprisesMSENSICProcurementPurchaseRegistrationSmall Enterprises
Details
The scheme “Single Point Registration Scheme (SPRS)” was started by the National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), Government of India Enterprise under the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) for Micro & Small Enterprises (MSEs) to participate in Government Purchases. The units enlisted under this scheme of NSIC are eligible to get the benefits under the Public Procurement Policy for Micro & Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order 2012 as notified by the Government of India, Ministry of Micro Small & Medium Enterprises, New Delhi vide Gazette Notification dated 23.03.2012 and amendment vide order no. S.O. 5670(E) dated 9th November 2018.

Benefits
Issue of the Tender Sets free of cost.
Exemption from payment of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD).
In tender participating MSEs quoting price within a price band of L1+15 percent shall also be allowed to supply a portion up to 25% of the requirement by bringing down their price to L1 Price where L1 is non-MSEs.
Every Central Ministries/Departments/PSUs shall set an annual goal of a minimum of 25% of the total annual purchases of the products or services produced or rendered by MSEs. Out of the annual requirement of 25% procurement from MSEs, 4% is earmarked for units owned by Schedule Caste /Schedule Tribes, and 3% is earmarked for the units owned by Women entrepreneurs. SPRS-registered units are an integral part of the supply chain to the Government.
In addition to the above, 358 items are also reserved for exclusive purchase from the MSE Sector (List is given below in the download section).
Provides access to many schemes & benefits.
Eligibility
All Micro & Small Enterprises having a Udyam Registration are eligible for registration with NSIC under its Single Point Registration Scheme (SPRS).
Micro & Small Enterprises who have already commenced their commercial production but have not completed one year of existence. The Provisional Registration Certificate can be issued to such Micro & Small Enterprises under the Single Point Registration scheme with a monitory limit of ₹5.00 Lacs. 
Fresh Registration Criteria:
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) involved in manufacturing & Services are eligible for registration. To know about a new definition of MSME, Click Here
Traders are not eligible for registration under this Scheme.
The validity of the SPRS Certificate is 2 years from the date of registration and thereafter renewed every two years.
MSEs already commenced their commercial production (Start-Ups) but have not completed one year of existence are eligible for Provisional Registration for one year. MSEs can apply for full registration after completion of one year.
Renewal Criteria:
The validity of the SPRS Certificate is of 2 years from the date of registration and the MSE unit can apply for renewal 6 months before the expiry of the certificate.
MSEs coming for renewal before the expiry of the SPRS certificate get a discount of 50% on the renewal fee.
MSE units having no change from the previously issued Certificate can apply for renewal online.
Application Process
Online
Fresh Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Udyam Registration website to obtain the Udyam Registration Number.
Step 02: MSEs have to register themselves in MSME Data Bank using Udyam Registration Number and PAN, to get themselves registered for Single Point Registration.
Step 01: To apply under the scheme, the applicant may visit the official website of the NSIC.
Step 02: On the home page, select the scheme from the ‘Schemes’ tab.
Step 03: On the right corner of the screen, click on the ‘Fresh Online’ tab.
Step 04: A separate page will open and at the bottom of the page click on ‘Apply Now’
Step 05: Fill in the application form completely and submit it.
Note 01: Single Point Registration has a 7-step form, each step can be filled staggered. Each step has a saved and continues option. This way form can be refilled and reviewed at any moment using your PAN and Udyam Registration Number combination.
Note 02: It is always advisable to kindly place all required forms, annexures and documents on your desktop in a folder for fast uploading.
Note 03: Fees will be charged based on the Unit Enterprise category (Micro or Small).
Note 04: Third-party inspection is also involved for store item inspection. Units are requested to kindly choose an inspection agency according to their domain expertise and jurisdiction.
Note 05: Final Certificate will be available online and the respective NSIC office will send a physical certificate copy by post.
Note 06: For any communications, the registration number of the certificate may be quoted.
Note 07: Contact our NSIC field offices for any query by visiting https://nsic.co.in/Corporate/SearchBranch.aspx 
Note 08: Where the MSE has more than one factory located in the same state or outside the state, all the factories shall be registered at one branch and the application as such shall be considered at one branch only.
Renewal Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the official website of the NSIC.
Step 02: On the home page, select the scheme from the ‘Schemes’ tab.
Step 03: On the right corner of the screen, click on the ‘Renewal Online’ tab.
Step 04: A separate page will open and at the bottom of the page click on ‘Apply Now’.
Step 05: Fill in the application form completely and submit it.
Note 01: Fees will be charged based on the Unit Enterprise category (Micro or Small) and MSEs coming for renewal before the expiry of the SPRS certificate get a discount of 50% on the renewal fee.
Note 02: Final Certificate will be available online and the respective NSIC office will send a physical certificate copy by post.
Note 03: For any communications, the registration number of the certificate may be quoted.
Note 04: Contact our NSIC field offices for any query by visiting https://nsic.co.in/Corporate/SearchBranch.aspx
Procedure for calculation & fixation of Monetary Limits of Micro & Small Enterprises:
The monetary limit of the company is fixed based on the unit's net sales turnover during the last three years reflected in the Audited Balance Sheets. The monetary limit will be fixed based on the highest turnover during the last three years which may or may not be of last year provided the units installed and operating capacity has not been reduced.
• In case there is no decrease in plant and machinery, then 50% of the highest turnover during the last 3 years reflected in the audited balance sheet will be the basis for the fixation of monetary limit.
• In case there is a decrease in plant and machinery of more than 10%, the following will be considered:
Where the turnover of the Enterprise has steadily increased over the last three years and the unit is in profit continuously, the Monetary Limit may be fixed at 50% of net sales turnover achieved in the last year.
In case the Company/Partnership concern/Proprietorship unit is in loss for one year out of the past three years, their monetary limit will be fixed at 40% of their average net sales turnover.
Similarly, when the Micro & Small Enterprise has been in loss for two years out of the past three years, the monetary limit will be accordingly fixed at 30% of their average net sales turnover of the past three years.
In the event of Micro & Small Enterprise being in loss throughout the past three years, the monetary limit of the Unit will be fixed at 20% of the average net sales turnover of the Unit during the past three years.
The applicant may visit http://www.nsicspronline.com/Fee_Calculator.aspx for the calculation of the Fee (Fee Calculator)
Documents Required
Documents Required for Fresh Registration:
PAN Card
Udyam Registration
Details of Plant & Machinery
A copy of the ownership document of the premises or a copy of the Lease deed/Rent Deed
List of quality control equipment and testing facilities available in the factory
Latest Electricity Bill Copy
Face of Audited Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss A/cs, Schedule of Fixed Assets, and Schedule of Revenue from Operations, (For the last 3 years, duly signed by the authorized person under his seal.)
Statement showing the Results of Operation for the last 3 years duly signed by the Chartered Accountant by indicating UDIN. (Annexure ‘C’)
Bankers’ Report giving details of the financial status of the applicant firm as per Performa (Draft at Annexure ‘E’).
Declaration signed by the applicant MSE Unit accepting conditions of registration as per Annexure D.
List of Directors & their Share Holding, Memorandum of Article, Board Resolution (In case of Private Limited/Public Limited)
Partnership Deed, General Power of Attorney as per Annexure A(1) (In case of Partnership Concern)
List of Members, Copy of Registration of Registration of Society, Resolution of Authorization, Name of Executive Body (In case of Industrial Co-operative Societies)
Authorization of Karta (Hindu Undivided Family)
Copy of incorporation document LLP Agreement (Form-3), Copy of Form 4:- Names of partners and changes, if any, made therein, Copy of Form 2 (It shows the location of the main or registered offices of the LLP, details of all the partners, statements etc.), Copy of Form 8:- Statement of Account and Solvency – The Statement of Account & Solvency is in Form – 8 signed by the designated partners, Copies of Form 11:- Annual Return, General Power of Attorney as per Annexure A(1) (In case of Limited Liability Partnership)
List of Members, Copy of Registration of Registration of Society, Resolution of Authorization, Name of Executive Body (In case of Trust)
Check-List of Fresh Registration/ Annexure
Documents Required for Renewal:
PAN Card
Udyam Registration
Details of Plant & Machinery
Latest Electricity Bill Copy
Face of Audited Balance Sheet, Profit, and Loss A/cs, Schedule of Fixed Assets, Schedule of Revenue from Operations (For the last 3 years, duly signed by the authorized person under his seal.)
Statement showing the Results of Operation for the last 3 years duly signed by the Chartered Accountant by indicating UDIN. (Annexure ‘C’)
Bankers’ Report giving details of the financial status of the applicant firm as per Performa (Draft at Annexure ‘E’).
Declaration signed by the applicant MSE Unit accepting conditions of registration as per Annexure D.
Original Enlistment Certificate issued by NSIC
Inspection Report (Choose the third party inspecting agency in case:- (i) the unit is engaged in manufacturing and both manufacturing & services (ii) the unit is engaged in rendering of services only and applying for renewal with amendment, The inspection fee shall be borne by the applicant MSEs.)
Revised Check-List for Renewal of Registration
Documents Required for Provisional Registration:
PAN Card
Udyam Registration
Details of Plant & Machinery
A copy of the ownership document of the premises or a copy of the Lease deed/Rent Deed.
Latest Electricity Bill Copy
Bankers’ Report giving details of the financial status of the applicant firm as per Performa (Draft at Annexure ‘E’).
Declaration signed by the applicant MSE Unit accepting conditions of registration as per Annexure D.
List of quality control equipment and testing facilities available in the factory.
Check-List of Provisional Registration
