Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan Yojana
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
HealthPregnant
Details
SUMAN Yojana or Surakshit Matritva Aashwasan Yojana is a maternity benefit initiative launched by the Ministry of Union Health and Family Welfare. This program provides affordable and quality healthcare solutions to pregnant women and newborns. Under this scheme, pregnant women, sick newborns, and mothers receive zero expense access up to six months after delivery. They receive treatment from quality hospitals and professionals. The PMSMA programme allows four antenatal check-ups during the 1st trimester and check-ups under Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan.

Objectives of the SUMAN scheme- 
This scheme offers zero expenses and access to detection and management of complications during and after pregnancy.
Pregnant women can avail a zero-expense delivery and C-section facility at public health facilities.
SUMAN scheme ensures zero-tolerance for denial of services to children and pregnant women.
Pregnant women also receive free transport from home to the health facility and drop back after discharge.
This initiative facilitates respectful care with privacy and support for breastfeeding.
Facilities such as services for sick newborns and neonates and vaccination are offered for zero cost.

Benefits
The scheme allows zero expense delivery and C-section facilities at public health facilities.
Beneficiaries will get four antenatal check-ups, one check-up during the 1st trimester, and one check-up under Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan.
The scheme also covers Tetanus-Diphtheria injection iron-folic acid supplementation, six home-based newborn care visits and components of the ANC package.
Pregnant women will get free transport from home to the health facility and will get dropped back after discharge.
Counseling and IEC/BCC facilities for safe motherhood
 Pregnant women will receive hassle-free access to all medical facilities.
Eligibility
All pregnant women and newborns are eligible to avail of the benefits under the PM SUMAN Yojana. Following are the general requirements -
Pregnant women from all categories, including APL and BPL, are eligible to get the benefits
Newborns aged 0 to 6 months old will be able to avail the benefits of this scheme
After delivery, lactating mothers up to 6 months from delivery are also eligible for this scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Individuals have to visit civil hospitals in their respective areas to register themselves for the PM SUMAN Yojana. Ideally, they have to fulfill the eligibility criteria and submit the mentioned documents to register for the scheme.
The civil hospitals of all the districts abide by the rules mandated by the Health Ministry. However, if there are some discrepancies, individuals can log in to the SUMAN website and file a complaint. Individuals have to submit certain documents to prove their verification.
Documents Required
Identity proof, comprising Aadhaar card, PAN card, driving license, voter ID card, etc.
Women's pregnancy details from a concerned hospital
Address proof, such as valid passport, Aadhaar card, utility bill, property tax bill, telephone bill, etc.
Now let's understand the benefits offered by this scheme.
