Financial Assistance for Setting up Crab Culture Unit
Goa
AquacultureFinancial AssistanceFishermenSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Setting up Crab Culture Unit” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, financial assistance of 25% of the actual cost, limited to ₹1,50,000 per hectare is provided to eligible fishermen for setting up crab culture unit. Only Fish Farmer/ Individual/ Registered Self Help Group/ Societies, interested in the setting up of the Crab Farming Unit in the State of Goa can apply to this scheme. The applications are accepted only in offline mode.

Benefits
Setting Up of the Crab Culture Unit
Financial assistance of 25% of the actual cost, limited to ₹1,50,000 per hectare.
The assistance can be availed for up to 2 hectares of land.

Purchase of Seed and Feed
50% of the actual cost, limited to ₹75,000 per hectare.
The assistance can be availed for up to 2 hectares of land.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Fish Farmer/ Individual/ Registered Self Help Group/ Societies, interested in the setting up of the Crab Farming Unit in the State of Goa.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
The applicant should undergo a training programme on Crab Farming organized by the Fisheries Department/ MPEDA/ ICAR/ Other Institutes.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Application in Prescribed Form.
Joint Photograph of Applicant.
Survey Plan Showing Neighboring Area in Original.
Engineering Layout.
Project Report.
Affidavit.
Form 1 & Form 14 of the Proposed Land.
NOC From Local Panchayat.
Proof of Existence of the Farm in Case the Farm is an Existing Traditional Farm.
Ownership/Leased Document.
Residence Certificate of 15 Years in Goa.
Training Completion Certificate of Crab Farming From Directorate of Fisheries/MPEDA/ICAR/Any Other Institute.
Mandate Form.
