Post Matric Scholarship To Scheduled Caste Students Of Nagaland
Nagaland
Higher EducationNagalandPost Matric ScholarshipScheduled CasteStudent
Details
Detailed 
The Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) has launched the Post Matric Scholarship to ST students of Nagaland scheme for providing socio-economic welfare to the students belonging to the residentship of Nagaland state. The student must be studying or getting admission to the post-matric class (class 11th, 12, UG, PG Degree).

Post-matric Scholarship for ST Scholarship is awarded to the students of the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. The objective of the ST scholarship is to provide financial assistance to these students to complete their studies at the college level.

Benefits
Benefits
To provide social security provisions to the students of post-matric classes.
Students will be able to pursue studies.
To provide financial assistance to these students to complete their studies at the college level.
Providing socio-economic welfare to the students belonging to the residentship of Nagaland state.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The applicant must be pursuing post-matric (above class X) studies and belong to the Scheduled Tribe of Nagaland. 
The Annual Income of the applicant‘s parents/guardians from all sources must not exceed ₹ 2.50 lakh (Rupees Two Lakh Fifty Thousand). 
Applicant must be from Institution which has a valid AISHE/UDISE code. 
Students who have failed their last examination (repeaters) are not eligible to apply. 
Students who have availed of this scholarship at one stage of education and have passed but are studying in the same stage of education in a different stream/subject. For example, a student who is currently pursuing a B.A. course but has passed BCom and availed of this scholarship while pursuing a BCom course will not be eligible to apply. 
Students having study breaks of more than 2 (two) years are not eligible to apply for this scholarship. 
Applicant must not be a beneficiary of any other scholarship scheme.
Applicant must not be an employee of any government/semi government establishment. 
Students pursuing Diploma/Certificate Course can also apply provided they fulfil the above criteria (1- 8) and their course duration is not less than two years. 
Students studying in NIOS can also apply, provided they fulfil criteria 1 to 8 and have the following subject combination. a) For class 11 and 12 level course, the applicant must have passed class 10 with the following subject combination. i) English ii). Alt English or MIL iii) Science iv) Maths and v) Social Science.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Institutions are to inform/notify to the students about the scholarship and set a dateline for receiving their forms and documents.
Institutions are to verify the form and documents and compile Annexure IV for eligible applicants. Transaction/Application ID of all Post Matric ST Scholarship forms start with the scheme code PMS. The Excel format of Annexure IV can be downloaded from the Directorate’s website https://highereducation.nagaland.gov.in.
Bank Account should be in the name of the applicant. If an applicant furnished Bank Account other than his/her own Account, the Application Form of such student/applicant should be rejected.
The institution should see to it that it displays/publishes the list of the eligible/rejected applications for any claims/objection/correction before submitting Annexure IV to this Office. This is required in order to avoid any undesirable issues/complaints after the submission of Annexure IV.
The Department will not entertain any request for inclusion in Annexure IV or submission of Annexure IV after the last date.
Institutions are to submit the following in regard to the Post Matric ST Scholarship. (a) Both Soft copy (Excel Format) and Hard copy of Annexure IV (see instruction in Annexure IV) (b) For MPhil/PhD applicants-Forms and enclosed documents (c) Forwarding/covering letter
Head of the Institutions/ In charge of scholarship at the Institutions should ensure that all necessary documents that have been mentioned are intact and genuine including the Hostel forms.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Documents required for Fresh Application:
Attested copy of class 10 Admit card.
Attested copy of class 10 Marksheet. 
Attested Mark Sheet (s) of the last class/year passed. For colleges with a semester system, mark sheets of the last two semesters. 
Attested Scheduled Tribe Certificate issued by the competent designated authority.
Attested Indigenous Certificate issued by the competent designated authority. 
Original Income Certificate (Fresh applicants only) –Annexure I/Annexure II/Annexure III issued in the year 2021. 
Part B Form (only for applicants studying outside Nagaland) 
Part C Form (only for MPhil/PhD Fresh applicants) 
Hostel Certificate: (For hostellers only) a) Applicant staying in a recognized hostel outside Nagaland can produce a Hostel Certificate from the hostel warden. b) Applicant staying in a recognized hostel within Nagaland should use the Hosteller Form issued by the Department. Hosteller Forms will be issued to the wardens of recognized hostels for distribution to the bonafide hostellers only.
Copy of the front page of Bank Passbook.
Copy of the Aadhaar Card. 
One recent passport photograph should be pasted on the printed form.

Documents required for Renewal Application:
Attested Mark Sheet (s) of the last class/year passed. For colleges with a semester system, mark sheets of the last two semesters.
Part B Form (only for applicants studying outside Nagaland) 
Part C Form (only for MPhil/PhD Fresh applicants)
Hostel Certificate: (For hostellers only) a) Applicant staying in a recognized hostel outside Nagaland can produce a Hostel Post Matric ST Scholarship, Nagaland 2021. Page- 4 Certificate from the hostel warden. b) Applicant staying in a recognized hostel within Nagaland should use the Hosteller Form issued by the Department. Hosteller Forms will be issued to the wardens of recognized hostels for distribution to the bonafide hostellers only. 
Copy of Admission Receipt. 
Copy of the front page of Bank Passbook. 
Copy of the Aadhaar Card. 
