Subsidy Scheme On Establishment Of 25 R.I.R. Birds' Unit For Weaker Section
Gujarat
FarmerPoultry FarmingRhode Island Red (RIR)SubsidyWeaker Section
Details
The scheme “Subsidy Scheme on Establishment of 25 R.I.R. Birds' Unit for Weaker Section” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare & Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to provide employment, nutritious diet and to raise the income of weaker section people of the society. Under this scheme, beneficiaries will be given 25 R.I.R bird units and a subsidy will be given 75% (maximum ₹4500/- in the form of birds and poultry feed).
Terms and conditions of the scheme:-
• Eligible applications will be sanctioned by Regional Joint Director.
• Beneficiary will have to manage to keep the birds safe during night hours.
• The birds will be given vaccination regularly.
• As and when birds get infected, they should be given treatment immediately.
• As and when the Government officer visits the farm the beneficiary will have to show income and expenditure statement.
• In normal cases the unit will have to maintain for two years.
• In all terms and conditions final authority will be the Director of Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar.

Benefits
The beneficiary will be given 25 R.I.R birds' unit along with poultry feed.
The subsidy will be given 75% (maximum ₹4500/- in the form of birds and poultry feed)
Under the scheme, the birds will be given vaccination regularly.
Eligibility
The benefits of this scheme will only be given to the adult of the economically weaker section people of the society of Gujarat state.
The beneficiary will have to provide income proof along with the application.
Females and beneficiaries below the poverty line will be given priority.
The beneficiary should have taken poultry-keeping training.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the nearest Intensive Poultry Development Project Office or District Poultry Extension Centre and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form, attach all the (self-attested) required documents, and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Step 03: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Income Certificate
Below Poverty Line Card (If applicable)
Residence proof
Category Certificate (If applicable)
