ICAR Emeritus Professor
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
EmeritusICARProfessorRetired
Details
The ICAR floated the Scheme of Emeritus Professor in order to provide an opportunity to the superannuated teachers/ Scientists of universities, colleges and institutions under the ICAR-AU System who have been actively engaged in teaching/ training and research programmes of the State Agricultural Universities/CAUs/ICAR Deemed Universities/ Central Universities with Agricultural faculty in the preceding years to undertake teaching, other related activities, student research guidance and developing instructional material/ Text Books including e-learning resources for use in the national agricultural education programme and distance education.

The ICAR Emeritus Professor Scheme is a structural method of tapping the brain and Skill Bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals of the National Agricultural Research and Education ystem (NARES) by utilizing their talent in teaching courses and uses their experience in addressing nationally important policy issues. Retired teachers/scientists may often be in a position to teach and work in economically and ecologically underprivileged regions. Hence, their expertise should be mobilized for launching a movement in science for remedying imbalances in available faculty positions for imparting higher agricultural education. The ICAR Emeritus Professor Scheme aims to utilize the talent and services of outstanding superannuated scientists/ teachers from NARES in teaching UG/ PG courses, other related activities, student research guidance and developing instructional material/ Text Books including e-learning resources for use in the national agricultural education programme and distance education. 

Benefits
The number of slots available under the Scheme is 100 at a given time. The
assistance available under the Scheme is :
1. Honorarium of Rs. 50,000/- p.m.
2. Contingency grant (Non-lapsable) of Rs.1,00,000/- p. a. towards secretarial assistance, travel within the country connected with the assignment, stationery, postage, consumables, books and journals. However, books and journals etc. procured out of the contingency grant will be the property of the university/college. While awarding the Emeritus Professor the amount of the contingent grant could be enhanced with the concurrence of the FA (DARE). The expenditure on travel may be used to cover the tours within the country to attend a scientific meeting/conference within the country once a year from the contingencies. Airfare in the economy class, eligible DA, and road mileage from the residence or from the headquarters to the airport and vice-versa will be admissible for such tours. No separate grant for TA/DA will be given and the Emeritus Professor is to meet the expenditure on TA/DA from contingencies. The contingent grant will be released only on the basis of requisition and actual utilization in the previous year. The expenditure would be accounted for audit by the university department concerned like any other departmental expenditure. The Emeritus Professor would be entitled to such other privileges including medical facilities as available to the university faculty members. No separate grant for TA/DA will be given and the Emeritus Professor is to meet the expenditure on TA/DA from contingencies. The contingent grant will be released only on the basis of requisition and actual utilization in the previous year. 
3. The Emeritus Professor will devote his whole time to the approved programme for which financial assistance is provided and he will not accept any other regular or part-time remunerative job during his tenure as Emeritus Professor. 
4 The Emeritus Professor shall not receive any assistance for the same work from any other source so long as he receives assistance from the Council.
5 The Emeritus Professor shall normally remain attached to an Agricultural University / ICAR DUs from where he/she retired, or to any other institution concerned with agriculture and allied sciences where he/she is assured in writing of the necessary facilities.
Eligibility
The following criteria will be taken into consideration for the selection of an Emeritus Professor: 
The applicant should be an outstanding superannuated teacher/Scientist with a good record of published work and teaching/ training experience of a minimum of 5 years. 

The ICAR Emeritus Professor can work under this scheme up to the age of 70 years or up to three years, whichever is earlier.

The teacher/Professor who is to retire in the next 12 months time is eligible to apply. The application should be submitted through the Executive Authority where the Emeritus Professor proposes to work in the prescribed Proforma to the Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR. The maximum age limit for applying for ICAR. Emeritus Professor will be 65 years. Preference will be given to applicants superannuated within one year from the date of notification. The notification for filling up vacant slots will be issued depending upon the vacancies from time to time. The applications received within the period specified in the circular will only be entertained.
Application Process
Online
Details 
The applicants having one year of service left or superannuated before one year from the last working day of the month of notification (i.e. 3rd March, 2023) will only be eligible for consideration under this scheme and may apply online in the prescribed format. In no any other form/mode, the applications would be accepted and will summarily be rejected. 
The eligible candidates may apply online through Research Leadership Building System (RLBS) Portal of ICAR accessible on link http://rlbs.icar.gov.in. 
The last date to apply is 03 March, 2023. The RLBS Portal shall remain open upto 11:59 P.M. of 3rd March, 2023. You are requested to bring this to the notice of all eligible Scientists/Professors and sponsor one or two candidates.In case of any difficulty while applying, they may contact on e-mail:-cbp@icar.gov.in.

Steps For Submission Of Online Application Form on http://rlbs.icar.gov.in. 
Login using your Email/Userid & Password. To create User Id use "Create New Account" link on home page. If you have forgotten your concern password click on "Forgot password" link.
After login you will get the details of the scheme which is open. Accordingly apply on that scheme.
Please fill all the pages given in basic details menu.
After filling basic details pages, you have to fill all the pages given in particular scheme menu.
After filling all the information you have to check the print preview page & take out the print out of the page for signature of higher authority & the applicant.
If a person is In-service then he/she had to fill the NOC form which has to be uploaded on final submit option.
After taking the signature on the print preview page upload this pdf file in the final submit option then only your application will be considered completely.
For further details you can check the user manual given in the menu bar of the homepage.
For any queries you can email us at cbp@icar.gov.in or call on 9027535847
Documents Required
List of the documents:
Academic Qualification certificate/document.
Employment Record certificate/document.
Research Experience certificate/document.
Teaching Experience-Courses Taught certificate/document.
Awards & Recognitions certificate/document.
Fellowship of National/International Academics certificate/document.
Need to upload the duly signed copy of the NOC. Its is mandatory for the persons who are in service.
Application Form
