Haryana Shubhra Jyotsna Pension Scheme
Haryana
EmergencyFinancial AssistanceImprisonmentPension
Details
The scheme “Haryana Shubhra Jyotsna Pension Scheme” was launched by the General Administration Department, Government of Haryana on 16th April 2018. The Government of Haryana launched the scheme for providing a monthly pension of ₹10,000/- to the residents of Haryana who participated actively during the period of emergency i.e. 25.06.1975 to 21.03.1977 and faced imprisonment under MISA Act, 1971 and/or Defence of India Act, 1962 and Rules framed there under. The scheme shall be made applicable from 01.11.2017.
  The expenditure under this scheme will be borne by the State Government. After sanction by the Administrative Secretary of this department, the amount of pension will be deposited in the bank account of beneficiary Emergency Sufferers. Chief Secretary will be the competent authority to sanction the pension under this scheme on the recommendation of the Deputy Commissioner concerned.

Benefits
The residents of Haryana who are eligible under the scheme will be given a monthly pension of ₹10,000/- (Ten thousand only) with effect from 01.11.2017.
Eligibility
The scheme will be applicable to residents of Haryana who participated actively and struggled during the period of emergency and faced imprisonment even for one day, under the MISA Act, 1971 and/or the Defence of India Act, 1962, and Rules framed there under. The scheme shall also be applicable to widows of such persons.
He or She must be a resident of Haryana State and must have undergone imprisonment for any period, during the Emergency Period i.e. 25.06.1975 to 21.03.1977. He or She has to produce the jail certificate for the same issued by Jail Superintendent concerned and countersigned by District Magistrate.
In case the person cannot produce the jail certificate due to the record being missing or unavailable, he may produce a certificate from two co-prisoners. Such certificates of co-prisoners must be authenticated by an MLA or MP of the concerned district.
Sufferers, getting a pension or honorarium of any kind from any other State Government will also be eligible. However, if an otherwise eligible Emergency Sufferer is getting a pension from any other State Government for the same purpose of an amount less than ₹10,000/- per month, the entitlement of pension under this scheme would be reduced by that amount.
The benefit of the scheme be also provided to those persons who are/were domicile of another State but were arrested and jailed in Haryana State.
Note 01: The beneficiary Emergency Sufferers will have to open an Aadhaar linked Saving Bank Account in any Nationalized Bank for transferring the amount of pension to their bank accounts and have to give a “live certificate” in January every year, as is being followed in the case of other pensioners.
Note 02: In case of the demise of any of the Emergency Sufferers, the monthly pension will continue to be given to his/her surviving wife. If the beneficiary had died (Husband or Wife as the case may be), the pension will be given to the living spouse.
Note 03: If the applicant is receiving any other pension from the State Government, this portion of the pension will be subtracted from Shubhra Jyotsna Pension, the only exception being the old age pension.
Note 04: Applicant can apply from only one district and he has to submit an affidavit to the effect that he has not applied from any other district.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number & password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicant will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter Card
Passport-size photograph 
Residence Poof
Ration Card
Bank account details
Relationship card of Freedom Fighter
Self-declaration that the beneficiary is not receiving any Honorarium/Salary from State Government
Jail certificate issued by Jail Superintendent concerned and counter-signed by District Magistrate
An affidavit that the applicant has not applied from any other district
Affidavit ‐ For Jail Tenure or For No Other Pension (From other states)
Jail Certificate or Affidavit of two Co‐Prisoners who were lodged in the same person and having their jail Certificate duly tested by the MP/MLA of the concerned district
If Widow, enclose the death certificate of husband
