Incentive to Widow's Remarriage
Puducherry
Financial AssistanceMarriageRemarriageSocial WelfareWidow
Details
The scheme "Incentive to Widow's Remarriage (IWR)" is a social welfare scheme by the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to encourage and support widows to remarry and lead a normal life in society. Through this scheme, eligible individuals receive financial assistance of ₹50,000/- in the form of a National Saving Certificate. The bridegroom should be a bachelor or a widower.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹50,000/- in the form of a National Saving Certificate.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a Widow.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence of not less than 5 years.
The applicant should not be carrying a child.
The applicant's annual income should not exceed ₹75,000/- per annum.
The bridegroom should be a bachelor or a widower.
The Bride and the Bridegroom should be of legal marriage age, i.e. 18 years for the Bride and 21 years for the Bridegroom.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, click "Register a New Membership".
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Signup".
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Sign In".
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Department-wise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating "I hereby declare that the above-mentioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge". Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
*Track Your Application here
* Access the User Manual for Online Application here
Documents Required
1. Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
2. Marriage Invitation.
3. Age Proof (Birth Certificate / TC) of the Bride and Bridegroom.
4. Death Certificate of the Bride's First Husband.
5. Marriage Registration Certificate.
6. Aadhaar Card of the Birde and the Bridegroom.
7. Declaration of the bride as not carrying a child.
8. Certificate from MLA/MP confirming the bridegroom's bachelor or widower status.
9. Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
10. Marriage Photo.
11. Ration Card.
12. Voter ID Card of Bride & Bridegroom.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Number; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
