Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
Gas ConnectionGrihini Suvidha YojanaInformation And Public RelationsLPG CylinderMMGSY
Details
The Yojana aims to free women of Himachal Pradesh from the indoor pollution by providing free LPG connections to families with no gas connection.
The objective of launching the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna was to provide free gas connections to those families who were not covered under the Centre's Ujjwala scheme. The state government started this scheme on the lines of PMUY. The Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana of the State Government have proved to be a boon for the women of Himachal.
As a result of Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna, the dependence on wood for fuel has reduced. Besides this, the adverse effect of smoke on the health of women has also been relieved and improved the standard of living of women.

Benefits
The benefits of Himachal Pradesh Grihini Suvidha Yojna are as follows:-
HP govt. will provide one cylinder for domestic Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) connection and two additional cylinders to the poor families.
All families in the state who does not possess the LPG Gas Connections and are not covered under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) will get covered under HP Grahani Suvidha Scheme 2023.
This scheme aims to provide LPG Gas connection facility to all the poor families.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant should belong to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.
The applicant should not have an LPG connection in their name or in the name of any member of their household.
The applicant should not be a recipient of any other LPG connection under any other government scheme
Application Process
Offline
STEP 1: Firstly visit website http://food.hp.nic.in/home.html_
STEP 2: At the homepage, click at the Downloadable Forms link under Citizen Services section.
STEP 3: In the new window, click at the “Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojna Form” link or directly click this link
STEP 4: Afterwards, e-KYC Form as well as HP Grihini Suvidha Yojana Application Form PDF will appear on the 1st page & 3rd pages in the pdf file. 2nd page consists of the list of documents necessary for filling e-KYC form.
STEP 5: Download the PDF file, fill both the E-KYC & application forms for Grahini Suvidha Yojana and submit it to the concerned authorities to avail domestic LPG gas connections.
Documents Required
1. Application form: The application form for the Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana can be obtained from the concerned authorities or downloaded from the official website of the scheme.

2. Address proof: Any one of the following documents can be submitted as address proof - Voter ID card, Ration Card, Aadhaar Card, Passport, Electricity Bill, Telephone Bill, or any other document that shows the applicant's address.

3. Identity proof: Any one of the following documents can be submitted as identity proof - Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card, PAN card, Driving License, or any other document that proves the applicant's identity.
