Mukhya Mantri Vidyarthi Kalyan Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
EducationFinancial AssistanceScholarshipSkill DevelopmentStudent
Details
The scheme “Mukhya Mantri Vidyarthi Kalyan Yojana” is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Education, Government of Himachal Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to school and college students in the form of scholarships. The scheme provides scholarships of upto ₹ 2,400 per month to the students from IRDP/BPL Families bonafide in Himachal Pradesh, and pursuing their study in Government / Government Aided Institutions in Himachal Pradesh.

Benefits
Rates of Scholarship (per annum)
Class 9th & 10th: Boys: ₹ 300/-, Girls: ₹ 600/-.
Class 11th & 12th: Boys: ₹ 800/-, Girls: ₹ 800/-.
College/University (Day Scholar):  Boys: ₹ 1,200/-, Girls: ₹ 1,200/-.
College/University (Hostelers): Boys: ₹ 2,400/-, Girls: ₹ 2,400/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bonafide of Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should belong to an Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) Family.
The applicant should be studying at the 9th to University Level.
The applicant should be pursuing their study in Government / Government Aided Institutions in Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant should have a Bank Account.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Go to the Official Website of the National Scholarship Portal. and click “New Registration”. Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 2: A Registration Form will appear. The fields marked as * are mandatory. Fill in the details and click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number. 
Step 3: Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction. Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password. Type the Captcha and click “Login”. On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm. Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
Step 4: On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to apply.
*Applicants are advised to fill the form correctly; no changes can be made once submitted.
*Applicants are advised to fill in only one application as multiple applications will cancel the form.
Documents Required
1. Passport Size Photo.
2. Aadhaar Card (Unique Identification Number / Enrolment Identification Number).
3. Himachali Bonafide Certificate.
4. Previous Year(s) Result Card(s).
5. Latest Bank Statement of the Student's Bank Account.
6. Integrated Rural Development Programme (IRDP) / Below Poverty Line (BPL) Certificate (Issued by an Officer not below the rank of Panchayat Secretary).
