Subsidy Scheme On Establishment Of - 25 Kadaknath/R.I.R. Birds Unit To Scheduled Tribes
Gujarat
Financial AssistanceKadaknathPoultry FarmingRhode Island Red (RIR)Scheduled TribeSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Subsidy Scheme on Establishment of - 25 Kadaknath / R.I.R. Birds Unit to Scheduled Tribes” was launched by the Department of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare & Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to provide employment, nutritious diet and to raise the income of Scheduled Tribe People of the society of Gujarat State. Under this scheme, the beneficiary will be given 25 R.I.R birds unit and a subsidy will be given 75% of the unit cost of the scheme (maximum ₹4500/- in the form of birds and poultry feed).
Terms and conditions of the scheme:-
The eligible applications will be sanctioned by the Regional Joint Director.
The beneficiary will have to manage to keep the birds safe during night hours.
As and when birds get infected, they should be given treatment immediately.
As and when the Government officer visits the farm the beneficiary will have to show income and expenditure statement.
In normal cases, the unit will have to maintain for two years.
In all terms and conditions, the final authority will be the Director of Animal Husbandry, Gujarat State, Gandhinagar. 

Benefits
1. The beneficiary will be given 25 R.I.R birds unit along with poultry feed.
2. The Subsidy will be given 75% of the unit cost of the scheme (maximum ₹4500/- in the form of birds and poultry feed).
3. Under the scheme, the birds will be given vaccination regularly.
Eligibility
The benefits of this scheme will only be given to the adult of Scheduled Tribe people of the society of Gujarat State.
The beneficiary will have to provide income proof and a caste certificate along with application.
Females and beneficiaries below poverty line will be given priority.
The beneficiary should have taken poultry-keeping training.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the nearest Intensive Poultry Development Project Office or District Poultry Extension Centre and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form, attach all the (self-attested) required documents, and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Step 03: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Income Proof Certificate
Below Poverty Line Card (If applicable)
Residence proof
Caste Certificate
Disability Certificate from Competent Authority (if applicable)
Ration Card (if applicable)
Savings Account Bank Passbook or Cancelled Check
