IGSTC Industrial Fellowship- Post Doctoral Industrial Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
FellowshipGermanyIGSTCIndo-GermanPost DoctoralResearch
Details
The Indo-German Science & Technology Centre (IGSTC) Industrial Fellowship Programme was launched by Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, Govt. of India on the occasion of IGSTC’s 11th Foundation Day on 14th June 2021 to support young Indian researchers for industrial exposure at German industries and industrial R&D institutions.
         Indo-German Science & Technology Centre (IGSTC), established by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), Government of Germany invites applications for availing Industrial Fellowship to encourage young researchers towards applied research. This programme is aimed at encouraging Postdoctoral researchers/fresh PhDs in S&T with an appreciable track record and having aptitude for applied research and technology development.      
The proposed programme aims to:
Motivate young Indian researchers towards applied research and build capacity to foster innovation and technology development through exposure at advanced German industrial ecosystems.
Encourage and enable Indo-German collaboration between industry-academia and industry-industry linkages through outstanding researchers.
Expose researchers to industry and industrial R&D enhancing interest towards applied research.
Create avenues for capacity building through doctoral and early career researchers in applied research through networking with industry.
Duration of Fellowship:
The duration of the Fellowship is 6-12 months.
Extension in duration of Fellowship shall not be entertained.

Benefits
The financial support will be limited to:
The fellowship amount is €2500 per month.
Single round trip economy class airfare including visa fees and travel insurance: up to €1000.
Health Insurance: As per actuals with a maximum limit of €100/month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Indian citizen.
The maximum age limit of the applicant should be 35 years.
Postdoctoral researchers/fresh PhDs who have been awarded their PhD degree in science/engineering within 3 years of the application deadline by any Indian institution/university are eligible to apply.
Outstanding researchers not holding a permanent position or having a career break are eligible to apply.
Those who have submitted their PhD thesis are also eligible to apply.
The Fellowship is granted to work in any industrial research set up in Germany.
Note 01: The applicant must define a detailed activity plan containing the objective, execution strategy, and expected outcome for the fellowship duration.
Note 02: The Awardee will be hosted by the industry/industrial research organization for the duration of the Fellowship. Choice and acceptance from the industry/industrial research organization is the sole responsibility of the applicant. The applicant should ensure an endorsement/consent letter from the host industry/organization at the time of the application.
Note 03: The applicant having institutional affiliation shall submit NOC from the Head of the institution at the time of application.
Note 04: Applicants shall submit a recommendation letter from the mentor at the parent organization.
Note 05: The applicant not having affiliation with an institution may submit 2 letters of reference.
Note 06: The awardee will abide by the conduct, rules & regulations of the German host organization and the country. IGSTC will not be responsible for the violation of any Rules and regulations by the awardee.
Note 07: IGSTC will disburse the grant to the Indian bank account of the awardee/parent institution in INR.
Note 08: The awardee shall commence his/her visit within 3 months from the date of the result.
Note 09: The awardee/host mentor must inform IGSTC through email/letter if the awardee discontinues the Fellowship before the completion of the tenure.
Note 10: Within 4 weeks of completion of the Fellowship, the awardee must submit a detailed Fellowship completion report endorsed by the host mentor in the prescribed format along with representative photos to IGSTC.
Note 11: The awardee must recognize and acknowledge IGSTC Industrial Fellowship in all online/print documents, communication, reports, publications, PhD thesis, etc. on work resulting from the Fellowship.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: IGSTC will advertise the Fellowship call once in a year through the IGSTC website (www.igstc.org) and other means. 
Step 02: The prospective candidates need to apply online in the application portal along with the required attachments within the deadline as mentioned in the Advertisement/Call text. 
Note: The application that should be submitted by other mechanisms will not be accepted.
Evaluation:
Applications will be evaluated by a Scientific Committee based on merit and compliance with the eligibility conditions. The decision of the Committee will be considered as final and binding.
Contact:
For queries:
Phone: +91-011-26543500
E-mail: industrial.fellowship@igstc.org
Mailing Address:
Indo-German Science & Technology Centre
Ground Floor, Block – II, Technology Bhavan,
New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi – 110016, India
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Consent Letter from the Host Institution
The applicant having institutional affiliation needs to submit NOC from the Head of the institution at the time of application
A recommendation letter from the mentor at the parent organization
The applicant not having affiliation with an institution needs to submit 2 letters of reference.
Proof of Date of Birth (Scan copy of Passport/Aadhaar Card)
Proof of Education Qualifications arranged in reverse chronological order
Proof of Employment
Any other document, as required
