Financial Support To The Students Of N.E.R For Higher Professional Courses (NEC Merit Scholarship)
Ministry Of Development Of North Eastern Region
ScholarshipStudent
Details
A scholarship scheme by the North Eastern Council (NEC), Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region for the students of the North Eastern States undergoing studies in different disciplines at different levels in Institutions inside as well as outside the North-East but within the country as specified hereinafter. The scholarship under this scheme shall be disbursed only through National Scholarship Portal (NSP). The scholarship shall be admissible to students who get admission in Diploma, Degree, Post-graduate or registration in M.Phil. / Ph.D. courses of any institute recognized by the Government. The grant of scholarship for M.Phil and Ph.D. would be after the registration of the students with the University. The scholarship shall be admissible to the students whose parent/guardian’s annual income from all sources shall not exceed ₹8,00,000.

Benefits
Rates of Scholarships (₹ per annum) for fresh and renewal cases (existing students):
The present rate of scholarship for related Subjects/Courses at different levels is as under:
Diploma: 20,000/-
Degree: 22,000/-
Postgraduate: 25,000/-
M.Phil./Ph.D.: 30,000/-

The number of Fresh Scholarships to be awarded every year to candidates of different NER states at different levels may be as given below - 
State: Arunachal Pradesh; Diploma: 20; Degree: 130; PG Degree: 52; M.Phil / PhD: 7; Total: 209
State: Assam; Diploma: 30; Degree: 200; PG Degree: 80; M.Phil / PhD: 10; Total: 320
State: Manipur; Diploma: 18; Degree: 120; PG Degree: 48; M.Phil / PhD: 6; Total: 192
State: Meghalaya; Diploma: 18; Degree: 120; PG Degree: 48; M.Phil / PhD: 6; Total: 192
State: Mizoram; Diploma: 18; Degree: 120; PG Degree: 48; M.Phil / PhD: 6; Total: 192
State: Nagaland; Diploma: 18; Degree: 120; PG Degree: 48; M.Phil / PhD: 6; Total: 192
State: Tripura; Diploma: 18; Degree: 120; PG Degree: 48; M.Phil / PhD: 6; Total: 192
State: Sikkim; Diploma: 10; Degree: 70; PG Degree: 28; M.Phil / PhD: 3; Total: 111
TOTAL: Diploma: 150; Degree: 1000; PG Degree: 400; M.Phil / PhD: 50; Total: 1600

The above numbers are fixed as per the normative allocation accepted for the respective NE States. The number of scholarships for the renewal cases shall be as per actual for different NE states and the scholarship amount as per the accepted rates as mentioned above shall be utilized both for the fresh candidates and renewal cases (existing students selected for the NEC Scholarship).

Notes - 
The various courses of studies at different levels for which NEC's financial assistance is admissible would be those as decided by the NEC from time to time keeping in view the requirements of specialized manpower of the North Eastern Region.
NEC may increase or decrease the total number of scholarships subject to the availability of funds/allocation of budget from time to time. However, the numbers would be fixed as per the normative allocation accepted for different NE states.
Students selected for grant of NEC Scholarship will be entitled to receive same from the date of admission/date of commencement (Date of registration in case of M.Phil / Ph.D.) whichever is later till completion of the course, subject to maximum period as prescribed in Para 3.3 above.
In case of doubt/clarification regarding the above rules, the matter shall be referred to: Director (HRD&E), North Eastern Council Secretariat, Shillong - 793003, Contact No. 03642522674.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of any of the North Eastern States.
The applicant must be admitted in Diploma, Degree, Post-graduate or registered in M.Phil. / Ph.D. courses of any institute recognized by the Government.
The total annual income of the applicant's parents/guardian (from all sources) shall not exceed ₹8,00,000.
The applicant must fulfill the following eligibility criteria in the previous qualifying examination:
Level: Diploma; Qualifying Examination: HSLC / HSSLC / Secondary School Leaving / Senior Secondary Leaving certificate examination from a recognized State/Central board with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate.
Level: Degree; Qualifying Examination: HSSLC/Senior Secondary Leaving certificate examination from a recognized State/Central board with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate.
Level: Post Graduate; Qualifying Examination: Degree level examination in any discipline (BA / BSc / BE / BTech / MBBS / LLB / BCA / BBA etc.) of any recognized Institute/ University with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate.
Level: M.Phil. / Ph.D.; Qualifying Examination: PG degree from any recognized University with a minimum of 60% marks in aggregate.

Notes - 
In case of a tie, preference shall be given to the candidate having a lesser family income.
There will not be any reservation/quota on the basis of category/religion/gender.
At the time of availing of the scholarship, the applicant must not be in receipt of any other scholarship/financial assistance from any other source.
Once selected, the scholarship shall be available to a selected student for the prescribed duration of a course subject to fulfillment of renewal conditions.
Extension of scholarship beyond the prescribed period of study will not be entertained.
Students enrolled in the integrated courses will be entitled to receive the scholarship for the full duration of the course as per the admissible rates.
The scholarship for M.Phil. will be available for 2 years and for the Ph.D. scholarship shall be for 3 years.

SELECTION FOR SCHOLARSHIPS AND DISBURSAL - 
The merit lists will be drawn from among finally verified applications as per the scheme guidelines and after following the laid down procedure on the NSP.
Selection of students for M. Phil and Ph. D. will be made on the basis of the topic of research/Synopsis which has relevance to the problems/issues related to the NE Region. The Subjects/topics for M.Phil and Ph.D. should invariably be directly, specifically, and currently relevant to NE Region. Basic and theoretical research shall not be favored in general.
The scholarship is purely on a merit basis. The merit list will be prepared exclusively on the basis of marks obtained by the candidate in the qualifying exams and complying with the level-of-course-wise slots allotted to the states.
In case the allotted quota remains unfilled for want of eligible candidates, the same may be distributed to remaining eligible students from the other NE States, as per their inte-rse merit list.
The scholarships will be disbursed to selected students by NEC directly in their provided and verified bank accounts using DBT mode as per the extant guidelines.

RENEWAL OF SCHOLARSHIP - 

Every renewal of the scholarship is for a period of one academic year only, if not otherwise specified. 
All existing and eligible beneficiaries of the scholarship are required to fill up the renewal form on NSP every year during their entire course period. 
The student must upload a previous exam marks sheet/pass certificate during the renewal application. In the case of students studying for M.Phil / PhD., the renewal application shall be accompanied by the latest progress report from the guide countersigned by the Registrar of the Institute.
To draw a scholarship under the renewal category, the beneficiary must pass in the particular year or be promoted to the next semester/year. In case the student could not pass all papers but was promoted to next year, as per extant rules, he/she may be considered for renewal of scholarships subject to the condition that no additional backlog, from previous years, is pending against his/her name. 
In case the student is not promoted to next year or has backlog papers pending against his/her name for more than one year, he/she shall not receive a further scholarship for the remaining course period. It will be the responsibility of the Institute level verifying officer to ensure that the student has been promoted for a year or does not have pending backlog papers for more than a year, before accepting the application on NSP for further processing. Otherwise, such applications shall be rejected on NSP after recording reasons.
Any break in scholarship, during the entire course period, shall make the beneficiary non-eligible for further receipt of the scholarship for that specific course. The students shall not be provided with an option to make renewal applications in subsequent years. The student may, however, apply as a fresh applicant, upon securing admission in any advanced course, at a later stage.
A request for renewal of students who have changed their subject of study will not be entertained for renewal if the students have availed of the scholarship for the previous course or part of it.
A request for renewal of scholarship of such student beneficiaries who have changed their Institution of study will not be entertained for renewal.
There will be no merit list generation for renewal applications.
Renewal scholarship will be disbursed to all eligible and duly verified applications by NEC, directly in their verified bank accounts using DBT mode as per the extant guidelines.
The request for renewal of scholarships of all existing applications belonging to Academic Year 2019-20 and before will be processed as per the prevailing procedure during Academic Year 2019-20, where the respective State Government will be responsible for directly disbursing scholarships in the student’s bank accounts.
Application Process
Online
The applicants are required to fill up the application form on National Scholarship Portal (NSP) (www.scholarships.in), within the prescribed date for receipt of the application, following due procedure/guidelines mentioned thereon. They may also fill up the application form using the NSP Mobile app or UMANG Mobile App. The applicants are, however, encouraged to
apply at the earliest as it will provide the opportunity to make corrections/updating, etc. in their application if suggested by the verification authority.

Step 1: Go to http://www.scholarships.gov.in/. and click “New Registration”.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory)
Fill the details and click “Register”. 
Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later.
Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application.
Documents Required
Permanent Residential Certificate (PRC) issued by the Dy. Commissioner /Addl. Dy. Commissioners/ Sub-divisional officers of civil sub-divisions in the NE States; except Sikkim where Certificate of Identification (COI) is issued by the respective Deputy Commissioner in the Govt. of Sikkim to its Permanent residents. A certificate from any other authority will not be accepted. (Mandatory)
Income Certificate issued by the Competent Authority (Mandatory)
Bank Account Pass Book – The account must be in the name of the applicant (Optional)
Details of qualifying examination (Mandatory)
Synopsis signed by the project guide / Director (Research) or any official authorized by the Institute/University in the case of M.Phil/Ph.D. candidates (Mandatory).
Any other document may be required under NSP guidelines. 

Note - 
The student must ensure that the Bank Account should be in the name of the applicant, preferably linked to her/his Aadhaar. The Bank Account should be kept operational /active till the complete tenure of the scholarship. 
NEC shall not be responsible in case the Scholarship amount is not credited due to payment failure at the Bank level.]
