AICTE-Swanath Scholarship Scheme For Students
Ministry of Education
OrphanScholarship
Details
A scholarship scheme by the Student Development Cell (StDC) of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to provide encouragement and support to orphans, wards of parents who died due to Covid-19, wards of Armed Forces, and Central Paramilitary Forces martyred in action (Shaheed) to pursue education. This is an attempt to give every such child, an opportunity to study further and prepare for a successful future through education in AICTE Approved institutions and courses. The family income from all sources should not be more than ₹8,00,000 per annum during the financial year of the application. The candidate should be currently studying in the AICTE Approved institutions and courses at the Degree/Diploma level in regular mode (in 1st /2nd / 3rd /4th year). The candidate should NOT be a Recipient of any of the Central Govt. / State Govt. / AICTE Sponsored scholarships. A maximum of 2000 scholarships (1000 for Degree Students and 1000 for Diploma Students) will be awarded every year to eligible candidates as above. ₹50,000.00 per annum for every year of study i.e. maximum 4 years duration for first-year admitted Degree students and maximum 3 years for Diploma Students as lump sum amount towards payment of college fee, purchase of computer, stationeries, books, equipment, software, etc.

Benefits
NUMBER OF SCHOLARSHIPS
A maximum of 2000 scholarships (1000 for Degree Students and 1000 for Diploma Students) will be awarded
every year to eligible candidates as above.

AMOUNT OF SCHOLARSHIP
Rs. 50,000.00 per annum for every year of study i.e. maximum 4 years duration for the first year admitted Degree students and maximum 3 years for Diploma Students as lump sum amount towards payment of college fee, purchase of computer, stationeries, books, equipment, software, etc. 

No other additional grant will be payable in lieu of hostel charges, medical charges, etc. In case the student is currently studying in the 2nd /3rd/4th year at degree level the duration of the scholarship will be reduced to 3/2/1 year respectively. Similarly, for students currently studying in the 2nd /3rd year at diploma level, the duration of the scholarship will be reduced to 2/1 year respectively.
Eligibility
The candidate should be one of the following: (i) an orphan, OR (ii) whose either or both parents died due to Covid 19, OR (iii) Ward of Armed Forces and Central Paramilitary Forces martyred in action (Shaheed).
The family income from all sources should not be more than ₹8,00,000 per annum during the financial year of the application. 
The candidate should be currently studying in the AICTE Approved institutions and courses at the Degree/Diploma level in regular mode (in 1st /2nd / 3rd /4th year). 
The candidate should NOT be Recipient of any of the Central Govt. / State Govt. / AICTE Sponsored scholarships. 
Application Process
Online
Step 1: 
Go to Official Website.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
Step 2:  
A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory)
Fill in the details: State of domicile, Scholarship Category, Name of the Student, Scheme Type, Date of Birth, Gender, Mobile Number, Email ID, Bank Details, and Identification Details.
Click “Register”. Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number.
Step 3:  
Go to the Official Website.
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.
 Step 4:  
On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later.
Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application. After successful submission of the application form, an application ID and password will be generated which can be used for future references.

Note
All the applicants are advised to fill out the form correctly, no changes can be made once submitted. The applicants are also advised to fill in only one application as multiple applications will cancel the form.
Documents Required
A. For Orphan Candidates:
(i) Death Certificates of both Father & Mother (if available), OR a certificate issued by Tehsildar / SDM as per enclosed format (Annexure – I).
(ii) Bonafide Certificate issued by the institution.
(iii) 10+2 / equivalent and 10th Mark sheet for Degree Level
(iv) 10th /equivalent Mark sheet for Diploma Level
(v) Category Certificate (SC/ST/OBC-NCL)

B. For Candidates whose either or both Parents Died due to Covid 19:
(i) Death Certificate of Father/Mother or both explicitly mentioning that the death was due to Covid-19.
(ii) If one parent (Father or Mother) is alive, the current year income certificate, explicitly mentioning that income of the family is less than ₹8,00,000 (issued by the Competent Authority).
(iii) Bonafide Certificate issued by the institution.
(iv) 10+2/equivalent and 10th Mark sheet for Degree Level
(v) 10th /equivalent Mark sheet for Diploma Level
(vi) Category Certificate (SC/ST/OBC-NCL)

C. For Wards of Armed Forces and Central Paramilitary Forces martyred in action (Shaheed)
(i) Death Certificate.
(ii) Shaheed Certificate issued by the Armed Forces/ Central Paramilitary Forces
(iii) Bonafide Certificate issued by the institution.
(iv) 10+2/equivalent and 10th Mark sheet for Degree Level
(v) 10th /equivalent Mark sheet for Diploma Level
(vi) Current year income certificate, explicitly mentioning that income of family less than ₹8,00,000, issued by Competent Authority.
(vii) Category Certificate (SC/ST/OBC-NCL) 
