AICTE-INAE Travel Grant Scheme For Engineering Students From AICTE Approved Engineering College/Institution
Ministry of Education
GrantStudentTravel
Details
A Travel Grant Scheme by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and by the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE), for the students from AICTE approved Engineering College/institutions. The scheme aims at enhancing the quality of engineering education in the country and to inculcate a culture of research amongst the students. The scheme aims to provide partial travel assistance and registration fees to Bachelors's and Masters's Level engineering students for presenting a research paper at an international scientific event(conference/seminar/symposium/workshop/exhibition etc) to encourage engineering students to engage in research. Pre-final and final year students of B.E./B.Tech or Integrated M.Tech and first and second-year students of M.E./M. Tech from AICTE-approved Engineering Institutions is eligible under the scheme. The student must have scored a minimum 7 CGPA or 65% in order to be eligible to apply under this scheme. The student should have a letter of acceptance for presenting a research paper that has been accepted in a conference/seminar/symposium/workshop/exhibition abroad.

Benefits
Financial Support
The reimbursement of 100% Registration Fee, Visa Fee including travel insurance up to ₹5000.
The reimbursement of 50% of the actual Airfare or discounted /concessional air tickets along with local transport from the airport to the venue for presentation, in case not claimed from any other source.
Actual fare not exceeding AC II-Class train fare will be admissible for travel from the Technical Institution to the nearest airport and back in India).
The maximum financial support per student for all the above reimbursements is limited to ₹1,00,000.
Eligibility
The applicant must EITHER be a Pre-final/final year student of B.E./B.Tech, OR Integrated M.Tech and first/second-year student of M.E./M. Tech, OR Students pursuing MS Research, M.Sc. in Engineering, dual degree B.Tech and M.Tech or any degree with a minimum of 4 years of engineering studies.
The applicant must be pursuing the degree course from an AICTE-approved Engineering Institution.
The applicant must have scored a minimum of 7 CGPA or 65% in the previous year's annual examination.
The applicant must possess a letter of acceptance for presenting a research paper accepted in a conference/seminar/symposium/workshop/exhibition abroad.

NOTE: A student is eligible only once during the course of his/her study for finance al support under the subject scheme.
Application Process
Online
Procedure to Apply

The application should be sent at least eight weeks prior to the date of presentation of the research paper through email at inaehq@inae.in and hard copy as well at the following address:
Executive Director Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) Unit No 604-609
6th Floor, Tower A, SPAZE I-Tech Park, Sector-49, Sohna Road, Gurgaon - 122 018 
Phone: 0124-4239480 Fax: 0124-4239481 
Website: www.inae.in
Documents Required
Curriculum Vitae containing the Date of Birth and Age, Awards, Scholarships, Educational Qualification, Research Experience, and List of Publications.
Passport Size Photograph.
A copy of the Letter of Acceptance from the organizers of the event.
Abstract/Full text of paperas submitted for the event.
A brief on the Project Impact of the paper presented.
A brief on Expected Outcome from the paper presented.
A scanned copy of the Certificate by the student.
A scanned copy of the Endorsement by the Head of the Institution.
