Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
Abdul KalamFellowshipInnovationResearchSERBTranslational Research
Details
Department of Science and Technology (DST) in association with the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE) launched a Fellowship in the year 2017, named “Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship” to recognize, encourage, support, and promote translational research in engineering by Indian Nationals working in public funded institutions in the country, so as to transfer fundamental research output in viable technological products/devices/components/processes. In brief, the principal objective of the Fellowship is to achieve excellence in engineering, innovation, and technology development. This fellowship scheme has been named after the late Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, the former President of India, who was a role model in Indian technology development and self-reliance. The scheme is being administered by the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) and implemented by the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE).
Scope:
All areas of engineering, innovation, and technology are covered by this fellowship.
Duration:
The duration of the fellowship will be initially three years, extendable by up to two more years depending on the performance.
The fellowship can be held for a maximum of 5 years.
Expected Outcome:
This Fellowship is applicable for Translational Research Only leading to possible commercialized or deployable technology; pilot scale or field trial worthy technology; patent (filed/sold/commercialized); working model or prototype for demonstration and trial (in addition but not limited only to scientific publication).
Fellowship:
A Maximum of 10 Fellowships will be awarded per year.

Benefits
The fellowship amount is ₹25,000/- per month in addition to regular income.
A Research grant of ₹15.00 lakh per annum.
An Overhead of ₹1.00 lakh per annum to the host institute.
Note: The fellowship is taxable as per the IT rule of the Government of India.
Eligibility
The scheme is applicable to Indian nationals working in India in various capacities of engineering profession in publicly funded institutions.
The scheme is also applicable to Overseas Citizens of India working in permanent positions in publicly funded Institutions in India.
The applicant should possess adequate professional qualifications and hold at least a bachelor’s degree with a proven outstanding track record in innovation or technology development.
This applicant should have a minimum of five (5) years of service left in the parent organization as of the date of the award.
The applicant should not be holding any other fellowship and in the event of selection, he/she will have to opt for only one of the fellowships.
Application Process
Online
Nomination:
The nominations will be accepted throughout the year.
The nominations can be sent by the Heads of the Institutions/organizations, Presidents/fellows of National Science/Engineering Academies, SS Bhatnagar Awardees, and JC Bose awardees.
Self-nominations shall not be accepted.
Forwarding of Nominations:
To download the Nomination Form and submission please visit https://www.inae.in/research-innovation/abdul-kalam-technology-innovation-national-fellowship/
The submission of Nomination form along with all supporting documents/appendices should be submitted by email to INAE at inaehq@inae.in
Selection:
Selection of Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellows will be made by a Search -Cum-Selection Expert Committee specially constituted for the purpose, as per the broad guidelines of the fellowship
Contact for more information on “Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship” at INAE:-
Lt Col Shobhit Rai (Retd), Convener cum Member Secretary
(Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship)
Deputy Executive Director, Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE)
Ground Floor, Block-II, Technology Bhavan, New Mehrauli Road, New Delhi - 110016
Phone: 011-26582475, Email: inaehq@inae.in
Website: www.inae.in
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of candidate
2. Passport size photograph
3. Proof of age
4. Proof that the candidate is working 
5. Educational Qualifications certificates
6. Details of Professional awards/recognition/fellowship
7. Endorsement Certificate
8. Bank Details (Bank Account Number, Name of the Bank, Bank Branch, and IFSC Code).
9. Any other document, as required
