Financial Assistance Scheme For Higher Competitive/ Entrance Examination To Scheduled Castes/ Backward Classes Students
Haryana
Backward ClasseCoachingCompetitive ExaminationEntrance ExaminationFinancial AssistanceScheduled CasteStudent
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance Scheme for Higher Competitive/ Entrance Examination to Scheduled Castes/ Backward Classes Students” was launched by the Department of Welfare of Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, the state government will provide financial assistance to the Scheduled Caste and Backward Classes boys/girls who are unable to avail of the coaching facilities for IAS and other higher services competitive examinations because of their weak financial position.
       This scheme has been modified w.e.f 01.06.2009. Under the amended Scheme, a committee headed by the Secretary, Welfare of Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes has been constituted which will determine the duration of coaching and quantum of fees for different examinations keeping in view the market rates. Under the scheme, earlier the financial assistance up to ₹10,000/- was being given. The income ceiling under the scheme has also been enhanced from ₹1.00 lacs per annum to ₹2.50 lakhs per annum.
Objectives:
The objective of the scheme is to enable Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes candidates to avail postal/class room coaching for civil services Examinations like IFS,IAS & Allied Services and any other services examinations conducted by the PSC/HPSC/LIC/GIC/ RRB/ BRB etc. and any other recruiting agency of State and Central Govt. in various private professional institutions. Beside this, personal, postal coaching for pre- Entrance examination will be provided in PMT/PET and any other coaching for interview will also be got provided from private institutions.
Finishing courses/job-oriented courses for employment in the private sector like IT, Bio-technology.
Implementing Agencies:
The scheme will be implemented through the reputed institutions situated in Haryana and other parts of India.
Funding Pattern:
The financial assistance will be released directly to the concerned institutions. The amount shall be released in two installments. First installment of 30% shall be released immediately after the joining of the candidate for coaching and second installment of 70% shall be released after the satisfactory completion of the course by the candidate.
Quantum of Fee:
The Committee will decide the fee structure for different examinations as well as duration of coaching after getting the market feedback every year. Accordingly, it will vary from time to time. 

Benefits
Under the scheme, the Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes candidates will be entitled to free coaching for IAS and other higher services competitive examinations.
The Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes candidates can avail of postal/classroom coaching for civil services Examinations like IFS, IAS & Allied Services, and any other services examinations conducted by the UPSC/HPSC/LIC/GIC/ RRB/ BRB, etc., and any other recruiting agency of State and Central Govt. in various private professional institutions.
The personal, postal coaching for pre- Entrance examination will also be provided in PMT/PET, and any other coaching for interviews will also be got provided from private institutions.
Benefit under the scheme can be availed by a particular candidate two times, irrespective of the number of chances he/she may be entitled to in a particular competitive examination.
Eligibility
Eligibility of students:
The student should be a domicile of Haryana & must belong to a Scheduled caste/Backward Class.
The annual Income of the parents/guardians Should not exceed ₹2.50 lacs.
The candidate should possess all the requisite qualifications required for the examination.
The candidate will not be permitted to avail of more than two chances for a particular competitive examination.
Note 01: The selected candidates shall have to attend all classes. In the event of any student remaining absent for more than 5 days at a time maximum of 15 days during the entire course without any valid reason, benefits of free coaching to him/her shall be discontinued and another candidate shall be taken in his/her place.
Note 02: Depending on the budget allocation, the total number of students should be fixed in advance and distributed among the agencies; it should not be left open-ended.
Note 03: This scheme will be applicable and available for only those courses which are not covered by any other Scheme for Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes run by other departments.
Selection of reputed institutions:
The Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Department, Haryana will invite proposals from the implementing agencies directly every year.
The proposals received from the implementing agencies will be considered and finalized by a committee consisting of the following: 
Chairman: Secretary to Govt. Haryana, Welfare of Scheduled Castes And Backward Classes Department.
Member-Secretary: Director, Welfare of Welfare of Scheduled Castes  and Backward Classes Department, Haryana 
Member: Deputy Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes  & Backward Classes Department, Haryana
Member: District Welfare Officer (concerned District) 
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The Director, Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes shall invite applications from time to time for different courses.
Step 02: The eligible candidates can download the application form from the Department Website or get it from DWO/TWO.
Step 03: Fill in all necessary details.
Step 04: The completely filled application form along with all the necessary attachments, submit it as prescribed in the advertisement whenever issued i.e. at the respective institution.
Note: The candidates for coaching under the scheme will be selected at State Level by a committee consisting of academic experts headed by the Secretary, the Welfare of Scheduled Castes, and Backward Classes Department. The other members of the committee will be nominated by the chairperson.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card etc.
Educational certificates
Passport-size photographs
Residence proof
Income Certificate
Caste Certificate
An affidavit from the student that he/she has not taken benefit for more than two chances under the scheme.
