National Fellowship For OBC Students
Ministry of Education
FellowshipOBC
Details
Background
The scheme "National Fellowship for OBC Students" was launched by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education (DoHE) during the financial year 2014-15 to increase the opportunities for the students of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) to pursue higher education leading to acquiring degrees such as M.Phil. and Ph.D.
The scheme aims at providing financial assistance to OBC students in obtaining quality higher education leading to degrees such as M.Phil. and Ph.D. in universities, research institutions, and scientific institutions. This will not only enable them to be eligible for employment to the posts of Lecturers lying vacant in various colleges and universities but will also equip them to effectively take advantage of the growing opportunities at the national and international level in the context of the new economic order.

Scope of the Scheme
The scheme is designed to provide a total number of 300 Junior Research Fellowships per year from the year 2014-15 and 300 Senior Research Fellowships from 2016-17 to Other Backward Class (OBC) students. The number of intake of JRF has been enhanced from 300 to 1000 per year onwards to undertake advanced studies and research leading to M.Phil./Ph.D. Degrees, who have qualified in the following tests:

i. National Eligibility Test ) – Junior Research Fellowship (NET-JRF) of UGC (for Humanities/Social Sciences) or
ii. UGC-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (UGC-CSIR) NET-JRF Joint Test (for Science)

The scheme covers all universities/institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and is implemented by the UGC itself on the pattern of the scheme of UGC Fellowship being awarded to research students pursuing M.Phil. and Ph.D. These 1000 slots will be over and above the number of OBC students selected under the normal reservation policy of the Government for UGC Fellowship.

Benefits
Number of Slots for Fellowship - 

The total number of slots for NFOBC under the scheme is 1000 per year. Out of 1000 slots available under this scheme, 750 will be allocated for the subjects under National Eligibility Test – Junior Research Fellowship (NET-JRF) of UGC and the remaining 250 UGC-Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (UGC-CSIR) NET-JRF joint test (for Science streams).
These 1000 slots will be over and above the OBC Students selected under the normal reservation policy of the Government.

Duration of Fellowship - 

Name of the Course: M.Phil.
Maximum Duration (Years): 2
Admissibility of JRF (Years): 2
Admissibility of SRF (Years): Nil

Name of the Course: Ph.D.
Maximum Duration (Years): 5
Admissibility of JRF (Years): 2
Admissibility of SRF (Years): Remaining 3 years

Name of the Course: M.Phil. + Ph.D.
Maximum Duration (Years): 5
Admissibility of JRF (Years): 2
Admissibility of SRF (Years): Remaining 3 years

Rate of Fellowship - 
The rates of fellowship for JRF and SRF will be at par with the UGC Fellowship (w.e.f 01.01.2019).
Presently these rates are as follows:

Fellowship in Science, Humanities, and Social Science 
@ ₹ 31,000/- p.m. for initial two years (JRF)
@ ₹ 35,000/- pm. for remaining tenure (SRF)

Fellowship in Engineering & Technology 
@ ₹ 31,000/- p.m. for initial two years (JRF)
@ ₹ 35,000/- pm. for remaining tenure (SRF)

Contingency for Humanities & Social Sciences
@ ₹ 10,000/- p.a. for initial two years
@ ₹ 20,500/- p.a. for remaining tenure

Contingency for Sciences, Engineering & Technology
@ ₹ 12,000/- p.a. for initial two years
@ ₹ 25,000/- p.a. for remaining tenure

Escorts/Reader assistance (All subjects)
@ ₹ 2,000/- p.m. in cases of physically and visually handicapped candidates

House Rent Allowance
HRA will be on the UGC pattern and will be payable to those students who are not provided with hostel accommodation. In case hostel accommodation offered by the University/institution is refused, the student will forfeit his claim of HRA, and other facilities such as medical facilities, and leave including maternity leave will be governed as per the guidelines of the UGC in case of their fellowship program.
Eligibility
The eligibility conditions are as per notification for UGC-NET and CSIR-UGC-NET examinations. 

The other Backward Class (OBC) candidates qualifying for the award of NFOBC will be eligible to receive a fellowship subject to finding placement in the University/IITs/Institutions. 
The validity period of the offer is 3 years with effect from the date of issue of the JRF Award letter. However, in the case of candidates who have already joined M/Phil. /Ph.D. the date of commencement of fellowship shall be from the date of declaration of result of NFOBC or date of their joining, whichever is later.
Students belonging to the Other Backward Class (OBC) category once considered eligible for the fellowship shall not be entitled to any other benefits from the Central or State Government or any other body like UGC offering similar benefits to avoid duplication and increase coverage. Only those, doing regular and full-time M./Phil. /Ph.D. course of a University/Research Institution shall be eligible for the fellowship. 
After two years, if the progress in the research work of the awardee is found satisfactory, his/her tenure will be extended for a further period of three years as Senior Research Fellow (SRF). The research work will be assessed as per the UGC norms. The total period of award of JRF and SRF shall not exceed a period of 5 years.
At least 4% of the total seats should be reserved for students with disabilities while making a selection of candidates for the award of fellowships by the UGC.
Employees of any University/College/Educational institution/Central/State/UT Government shall be excluded from availing the fellowship, even if they are on study leave or Extra Ordinary Leave (EOL) to pursue M.Phil./Ph.D.

Selection Procedure
The selection of students will be made on the basis of merit in each UGC-NET-JRF and CSIR-NET-JRF examination and will be made twice a year. 
However, preference will be given to such students who have secured admission. In case sufficient such candidates are not available, candidates who have not secured admission will also be selected in the order of merit in the NET examination. A separate merit list would be drawn up for such candidates if required.
The qualified candidates have to enroll in universities/institutions/colleges recognized under: 

Under Sections 2 (f) of the UGC Act, 1956, i.e., Universities established under Central, Provincial, or State Acts or any other institution recognized by UGC.
Grant-in-Aid Deemed Universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act, i.e., institutions for higher education notified by the Central Government to be deemed Universities, in consultation with UGC.
Universities/Institutions funded by State/ Central Government.
Institutions of National Important as notified by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. (mhrd.gov.in/institutions-national-importance)
The decision of the UGC regarding to awarding the fellowship shall be final and no appeal could be filed against it.
Application Process
Online
PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR THE SCHEME
Applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading 
newspapers and Employment News. The same is also uploaded on the UGC Website 
www.ugc.ac.in The selection is made on the basis of merit and as per the procedure of the 
Commission.

Step 1: Go to the official website of UGC: https://www.ugc.ac.in/
Step 2: On the homepage, locate the “e-SARTS Scholarships-Fellowships” link. (Normally placed on the right side of the homepage)
Step 3: A new page will open, wherein the candidate has to select “National Fellowship for OBC Candidate”
Step 4: Click on the “Apply Now” option which is available at the top of the page.
Step 5: Fill out all the required information with personal and academic details.
Step 6: Attach all the required documents in the prescribed format.
Step 7: Lastly, click on Submit to submit the form successfully.

In order to get your application considered, submit it before the deadline.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number
Caste Certificate
Parent’s Annual Income Certificate (issued by the competent authority)
Passport-size Photograph and Signature
Mark-sheet of Masters Degree
Declaration/Certificate from Head of Department/Institution or University/College
Proof of Physical Disability (if required)
Bank Details
