SITARE-Appreciation Grant
Ministry Of Science And Technology
AppreciationBIISGrantResidential WorkshopSITAREUndergraduate Student
Details
“Students Innovations for Translation & Advancement of Research Explorations (SITARE)” Scheme is started by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) for supporting innovative student projects in the area of biotechnology. The scheme’s mandate is to promote and encourage young students for embracing translational research to develop innovative products and technologies addressing unmet needs. The scheme has two components: SITARE-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award Grant (SITARE-GYTI) and SITARE-Appreciation Grant. 
SITARE-Appreciation Grant:
Residential workshops called as Biotech Innovation Ignition School (BIIS) for undergraduate students are organized to provide hands-on technical training and mentorship for problem identification in 3-4 weeks duration. Out of 30-40 students per workshop, 10 students are selected and provided grant support of up to INR 1 lakh each to encourage their inquisitiveness and sustained efforts. The recipients are recognized as BIRAC’s SITARE-Appreciation beneficiaries. In a year, 3 such workshops are conducted. 
About BIIS:
The mandate of Biotech Innovation Ignition School (BIIS) is to provide exposure and orientation for the entrepreneurial journey through hands-on-technical training, interactive sessions with experts, access to a bio incubation center, etc. This is to promote grassroots innovations and nurture ideas with societal impact, pioneered by undergraduate students, especially from Tier II/III cities. The selected few would receive financial support of INR 1 lakh as an encouragement to pursue their inquisitive entrepreneurial idea. The fund recipients would be recognized as SITARE-Appreciation recipients and may also receive follow-up training and mentoring.
The BIIS is a national-level programme to provide up to 4 weeks of residential training benefitting up to 40 students in each session.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the residential workshops called as Biotech Innovation Ignition School (BIIS) for undergraduate students are organized to provide hands-on technical training and mentorship for problem identification in 3-4 weeks duration.
Out of 30-40 students per workshop, 10 students are selected and provided grant support of up to INR 1 lakh each to encourage their inquisitiveness and sustained efforts.
The recipients are recognized as BIRAC’s SITARE-Appreciation beneficiaries.
In a year, 3 such workshops are conducted.
Note: The grantees are expected to conduct further research on the topic either at home institution or at the SITARE Partner’s lab. SITARE Partner can extend mentoring and other support required for the same.
Travel/Accommodation:
 The following expenses will be covered for student participants:
• Class II Rail fare and local travel expenses
• Hostel accommodation
• Breakfast, lunch, dinner
• Shuttle facility from hostel to project site
Other activities:
SITARE Partner is encouraged to provide mentoring to BIIS participants by organizing invited talks by experts from institutions such as but not limited to TiE, BREC, Management schools, etc., and may undertake tour(s) to nearby reputed colleges/institutions/incubation centres.
Eligibility
Students pursuing Bachelors programme in any discipline are eligible to apply under the scheme.
The student should have a valid ID issued by the Institution/University.
A student can avail of only one opportunity for BIIS workshop training across all SITARE Partners, except for the SITARE-Appreciation Award Grantees who will be eligible to avail access to subsequent workshops by other Partners on recommendation by SITARE Partner/BIRAC.
Note: The preference will be given to the students who are from Tier II/Tier III cities and aspirational districts within India.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
The process for submitting the proposals online is detailed below:
Step 01: Call for applications will be invited against advertisement by SITARE Partner. Applications need to be submitted online only.
Step 02: Log on to the BIRAC website www.birac.nic.in
Step 03: If you are a registered user, login using the credentials, else you need to register yourself as an individual by clicking on “New User Registration”.
Step 04: In case of new user registration, a computer-generated password will be sent to the email ID provided at the time of registration. The password can be changed later.
Step 05: Once you login, you will be navigated to the page displaying SITARE-BIIS link.
Step 06: Click on the SITARE-BIIS application link under Programmes and the active call will be highlighted.
Step 07: Click on the active call against which you wish to submit the proposal.
Note 01: The format of the application with Statement of Purpose can be accessed through the website.
Note 02: Tentative months for the conduct of BIIS Workshops: February, June, and December.
Selection Process:
Selection will be based on the Statement of Purpose (SoP) submitted by the Student. Key factors for the selection of applications include:
• Originality (40%)
• Clarity of Purpose (20%)
• Implementation Plan (15%)
• Potential impact (15%) 
Note: Selected students will be informed 3 weeks prior to start of the workshop.
SITARE Partner: Society for Research and Initiatives for Sustainable Technologies and Institutions (SRISTI), Ahmedabad is the current SITARE Partner.
Contact details of SRISTI:
SRISTI, AES Boys Hostel Campus, Near Gujarat University Library & SBI Bank,
Navrangpura, Ahmedabad-380 009, Gujarat, India.
Email: info@sristi.org; Phone. 079-27913293, 27912792
Documents Required
A valid ID issued by the Institution/University
Aadhaar Card, PAN Card
Educational qualification certificates
Residence proof
Any other relevant document
