AICTE – Mitacs Globalink Research Internship (GRI) Scheme
Ministry of Education
InternshipResearch
Details
AICTE, on 23rd February 2018, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Mathematics of Information Technology and Computer Systems (MITACS) Canada for AICTE – MITACS Globalink Research Internships (GRI) Program to foster cross-border partnerships focused on creating a platform that opens the path for collaborative research between Canada and India to a wider pool of student talent in India. The AICTE-MITACS GRI Program is open to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines. The duration of the internship is 12 weeks. A maximum of 300 students are accepted in a financial year. The student fulfilling the eligibility criteria shall apply directly to MITACS Canada via its portal. The total cost of the program is $12,000 CAD per student. MITACS will contribute $9,000 CAD per student. AICTE will contribute $3,000 CAD per student. The full cost per student includes airfare, visa, medical, stipend, accommodation, Globalink Student Mentors, programming, and research costs. It will also include access to Globalink branded activities in Canada, which may include professional skills workshops, receptions, and industrial engagement activities. 

Benefits
The total cost of the program is $12,000 CAD per student. 
MITACS will contribute $9,000 CAD per student. 
AICTE will contribute $3,000 CAD per student. 
The full cost per student includes airfare, visa, medical, stipend, accommodation, Globalink Student Mentors, programming, and research costs. It will also include access to Globalink branded activities in Canada, which may include professional skills workshops, receptions, and industrial engagement activities. 
Eligibility
The applicant must be a 3rd-year full-time student of an undergraduate program (B.E / B.Tech) in AICTE Approved Institution in the year of application.
The applicant must have a minimum CGPA / GPA of 85% in 2nd year.
The applicant must be at least 18 years of age.
The applicant must be able to spend twelve (12) weeks between May and September at a university in Canada on a research project related to their area of interest and expertise.
The applicant must be able to demonstrate oral and written fluency in English or French, depending on the primary language of the project as indicated by the Canadian host professor.
Application Process
Offline
PROCEDURE TO APPLY
The student fulfilling the eligibility criteria shall apply directly to MITACS Canada via its portal and follow the procedure, guidelines, and terms and conditions mentioned therein;
All materials submitted to MITACS must be in either English or French. If materials submitted are not in one of Canada’s official languages, notarized transcripts must be submitted.
Before leaving the country for pursuing Globalink Research Internships (GRI) in Canada, student should have a valid passport and has obtained all necessary documents and permissions including a visa, air tickets for air travel, etc.
Documents Required
Candidates must provide the following with their application to the AICTE-GRI Program, in accordance with the instructions on the MITACS online application portal:
Official yearly transcripts for all years in university;
Curriculum Vitae (CV);
One (1) reference letter from a post-secondary academic supervisor or researcher and Project rationale;
Any other document(s) mentioned in MITACS GRI Portal;
Upon completion of the Internships, the candidate must submit the feedback form.
