Indira Gandhi Shehri Credit Card Yojana
Rajasthan
CovidEmpowermentFinancial AssistanceUnemployment
Details
The scheme targets street vendors, people providing essential services in the informal sector such as hair dressers, rickshaw-pullers, potters, eaters, cobblers, mechanics, tailors, washermen, paint-painters, plumbing-electric repairmen, etc. and the unemployed. financially empowering the youth Provide and restore.

Benefits
Providing interest-free loan facility up to Rs.50,000/- (fifty thousand). 
To promote the development of small businesses in the informal sector. 
To encourage self-employment. 
To make available financial resources for day-to-day needs. 
Mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on the informal business sector.
This scheme will pave the way for the development and promotion of the economy by helping 5 lakh beneficiaries working in the informal business sector of Rajasthan state.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of Rajasthan.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 40 years.
To get the benefit of this scheme, the monthly income of the applicant should be Rs 15,000/- or less.
The monthly income of the applicant's family should be Rs. 50,000 or less.
All those small traders who have been provided with a certificate or identity card by the urban body are also eligible for this scheme.
Traders left out in the survey or beneficiary Wonder with a recommendation letter from Town Vending Committee will also be eligible for this scheme.
The vendors selected during the survey will also be eligible for this scheme. (To whom a certificate or identity card has not been issued)
Application Process
Online
Applicants can apply through e-Mitra 
centre on the online web portal of the scheme or through own S.S.O. Application or through concerned urban body office. 
The applications received on the portal will be verified by the concerned nodal officer in 07 working days. 
Documents Required
Passport size photo.
Janadhar Card.
Aadhar card.
Documents related to current residence in Rajasthan.
Documents related to permanent residence in Rajasthan.
Bank account passbook.
Certificate for vendor, Wedding ID card, Recommendation letter issued by Municipal body.
Registration number registered at the District Employment Center.
Self-attested affidavit will also have to be attached by the applicant in which :-
Presently information related to outstanding loan running on the applicant (if any).
Type of business/occupation.
Self declaration of monthly income (monthly income should be less than 15000).
Monthly family income details should be included (monthly income should be less than 50000).
