International Cooperation Scheme- Market Development Assistance
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
CooperationDevelopmentEnterprisIndustryInternationalMarketMSME
Details
The scheme “International Cooperation Scheme” was launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India with the aim to capacity build MSMEs for entering the export market by facilitating their participation in international exhibitions/fairs/conferences/seminars/buyer-seller meets abroad as well as providing them with actionable market-intelligence and reimbursement of various costs involved in the export of goods and services. The Scheme provides opportunities for MSMEs to continuously update themselves to meet the challenges emerging out of changes in technology, changes in demand, emergence of new markets, etc. Thus, in totality, all components of the scheme aimed at various aspects required to advance MSMEs' position as emerging export players.
The Scheme would cover the following sub-components:
• Sub-Component-I: Market Development Assistance of MSMEs (MDA).
• Sub-Component-II: Capacity Building of First Time MSE Exporters (CBFTE).
• Sub-Component-III: Framework for International Market Intelligence Dissemination (IMID).
As on date, Sub-Component–I and Sub-Component-II are in operation. Sub-Component-III will be in operation soon.
Sub-Component I: Market Development Assistance of MSMEs (MDA):
Under this component, the following activities are covered:
Physical Medium:
Participation (as exhibitors) of MSME delegations of industry associations and government organizations, involved in the promotion of MSMEs, in international exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-seller meets in foreign countries for exploring potential markets for exports, seeking joint ventures, awareness about latest technologies, etc.
Organizing international conferences/summits/workshops/seminars in India on themes relevant to MSMEs by the Industry Associations and Government organizations.
Organizing Mega international exhibitions/fairs/buyer-seller meets, conferences/summits/ workshops/ seminars abroad by the Ministry of MSME, its organizations solely or in partnership with industry associations for the promotion of the MSME sector.
Organizing Mega international conferences/ summits/ workshops/ seminars, bilateral/multilateral Government to Government Events in India by the Ministry of MSME, its organizations solely or in partnership with industry associations for promotion of the MSME sector.
Participation of Ministry-led Industrial delegations to International Exhibitions/Fairs/Conferences in foreign countries.
Virtual Medium:
Participation (as exhibitors) of MSME delegations of industry associations and government organizations, involved in the promotion of MSMEs, in international exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-seller meets by foreign organizers for exploring potential markets for exports, seeking joint ventures, awareness about latest technologies, etc.
Organizing international conferences/ summits/ workshops/ seminars on themes relevant to MSMEs by the Industry Associations and Government organizations.
Organizing Mega international exhibitions/fairs/buyer-seller meets, conferences/summits/seminars/ workshops, bilateral/multilateral Government to Government Events by Ministry of MSME, its organizations solely or in partnership with industry associations for promotion of MSME sectors.

Benefits
Under this scheme component, financial assistance is provided on a reimbursement basis for airfare, Space Rent (Stall Charges), Duty allowance, Freight charges, advertisement & publicity charges, entry/registration fees, holding/organizing International conferences/ summits/ workshops/ seminars, etc.
Eligibility
Eligible Organisations:
Events under the scheme can be organized by:
a) Ministry of MSME and organizations under the Ministry;
b) State/Central Government Organisations/Institutions; and
c) Registered Industry/Enterprise Associations
Conditions:
The applicant organization should be suitably registered under the relevant Act (i.e., companies under the Companies Act, Societies under the Societies Act, etc.) with the primary objective of promotion and development of MSMEs.
The applicant organization should have regular audited accounts for the past 3 years.
Events, for which financial support under the Scheme is sought, must be from the list of approved exhibitions/ events/ buyer-seller meets finalized by the Ministry of MSME in each financial year.
Financial assistance to one applicant organization would normally be restricted to three events in a financial year. The Screening Committee may, however, recommend a relaxation of this condition for reasons to be recorded and allot more than 3 events.
The quantum of assistance shall only be supplemental in nature to the contribution of the organizer.
The Industry Associations/organizations are allowed to participate in a particular event continuously for 3 years. After participating in the particular event continuously for 3 years, they will be eligible to participate in the same event after a gap of 2 Years.
Selection of the participating units shall be based on the eligibility scorecard prescribed under the scheme (Annexure C) and in no case an MSME unit scoring less than 60 percent marks will be eligible for availing the benefits under the scheme. The applicant organization must satisfy itself in this regard before proposing the name of the MSME unit in the delegation and any discrepancy, if noticed later, shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant organization.
While selecting entrepreneurs/participants, the applicant organization should ensure that one MSME unit must not participate in more than 2 events in a financial year under the scheme.
The applicant organization should also ensure that the selection is done in a fair and transparent manner, taking into consideration factors like the track record, growth potential, export potential, etc.
In order to make representation in such events more inclusive and equitable, the following guidelines must be followed:
Adequate representation would be given to SC/ST/Women/NER entrepreneurs in such events.
While selecting entrepreneurs as well as representative(s) of the participating units, priority should be given to persons who have not participated in such events earlier with a Government grant.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The applicant organization will submit an online application for financial assistance, along with the relevant documents and the budget estimate of the expenditure on the proposed event in the proforma online giving full details of expenditure.
Step 02: To apply under the scheme, the applicant organization needs to visit the official website/portal. (https://ic.msme.gov.in/IC_APP/IC_Welcome.aspx)
Step 03: On the home page, select “Market Development Assistance” to login who have already registered. If the applicant Organization is a new user, click on “New User Register Here” to register under the scheme by selecting the type of Organization.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant organization can login with valid credentials. After login, the user will be redirected to their Dashboard where multiple action has to be done.
Note:  The admissible financial assistance would be worked out on the basis of this budget estimate and in accordance with the criteria/scale and further at the discretion of the Screening Committee.
Procedure for Approval of Proposals Furnished by Coir Board and KVIC:
Coir Board/KVIC will mobilize the MSME units and submit the consolidated proposal in the prescribed format on the IC Scheme Portal of the Ministry for seeking in-principle approval of the Screening Committee. As for the claim for reimbursement, Coir Board/KVIC will meet all expenditures from their own budget allocated for this purpose.
Selection of the MSME units participating in the International Fairs/ Exhibitions abroad by Industry Associations/ Government Organizations:
There shall be a "Score Card" for the selection of the MSME units participating in the International Fairs/ Exhibitions abroad. The Industry Associations/Organizations etc. will furnish the Score Card, duly filled up, along with the application and also give a self-undertaking to the effect that the information furnished in the Score Card is correct and nothing has been concealed. The minimum qualifying score/points should be 60% of the Score Card. The applicant organization must satisfy itself in this regard before proposing the name of the MSME unit in the delegation and any discrepancy, if noticed later, shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant organization.
Claim will be accepted only in respect of those MSME Units whose names have been submitted by the Industry Associations/Government Institutions in the list submitted along with the application form.
Documents Required
Documents required at the time of submission of application on the IC scheme portal:
Budget estimate
Copy of the Registration Certificate of the applicant organization (one-time requirement)
Copy of Memorandum and Articles of Association (one-time requirement)
Copies of Audited Balance Sheet, Profit & Loss Account or Income and expenditure Account of the applicant organization for the last 03 years
Documents required for the settlement of claims for EPCs under the Foreign Trade Policy (FTP) of the Department of Commerce and organizations under the Ministry of MSME, are to be physically submitted to the IC Section, M/o MSME, and uploaded on the IC Scheme Portal.
The second and final installment would be contingent upon the submission of the outcome report (as prescribed under the IC Scheme portal), Utilisation Certificate, and Chartered Accountant (CA) certified audit account statements including inter alia sources of funding) within 60 days from the date of completion of the event/activity
A Certificate declaring that financial assistance has not been sought from another Ministry/Department is to be submitted.
Udyam Registration Certificate of all participating MSME units to be submitted.
The applicant organization must maintain with them all documents. These records as well as other documents connected with the release of the financial assistance from the Ministry must be maintained till a CAG Audit is conducted.
Any other document(s) as sought by the Ministry of MSME.
Documents required to be uploaded at the time of submission of claims on IC Scheme Portal for organisations not having EPC status:
Claim Form Duly filled and a copy certified by Chartered Accountant to be uploaded.
List of participants along with score card (Annexure-A).
Mandate Form duly filled up by Applicant Organization and verified by the concerned Bank (Annexure-B)
Pre-receipt (Annexure-C).
Certification from the association declaring that they have not sought financial assistance from another Ministry/Department for the claim submitted under the IC scheme. (Annexure-D)
Udyam Registration Certificate of all participating MSME units
Copy of the e-ticket complete in all respects with fare information on the e-ticket for air travel (For Physical Events)
Original Boarding Pass [In case of multiple Boarding Passes, provisions of the Original Boarding pass of the destination city (host city of the event under consideration) is a must. In case of non-availability of original boarding pass for reasons to be conveyed in writing, a certificate from the airlines stating that the journey has been undertaken will be acceptable] (For Physical Event)
Original Invoice along with receipt of Payment (original) for claiming stall charges, freight charges, advertisement and publicity charges, entry/registration fees, platform charges, Interpretation charges, etc.
Any other document(s) as sought by the Ministry of MSME
All documents should be self-attested/certified with a seal by the applicant organization.
(All the above documents are to be submitted in original to the IC Section physically)  
