Campus Recruitment Assistance Scheme
Goa
AssistanceCampusCollegeFresherRecruitment
Details
Launched in 2018, the "Campus Recruitment Assistance Scheme" is one of the "Information Technology Policy Schemes" by the Department of Information Technology, Government of Goa. The objective and the scope of this scheme is to provide Campus Recruitment Assistance to the eligible Information Technology Units in the State of Goa. A recruitment assistance of ₹10,000 per Fresher will be provided to the Existing and New units that recruit through Campus recruitment from the educational institutes located in Goa. All the New and Existing Units having their operations in Goa are eligible. The scheme has been framed as a part of Goa's IT Policy that envisages Goa as an aspirational geographical and human resource base for IT Units and a preferred destination for their investment and expansion.

Benefits
₹ 10,000 per Fresher will be provided to the units that recruit through Campus recruitment from the educational institutes located in Goa. 
NOTE 1: The benefits under this scheme are subject to budgetary allocation. No Promissory Estoppel shall be applicable if benefits are discontinued in case the allocation is exceeded.
NOTE 2: The subsidy will be provided only for the Freshers recruited during the operation period of the Policy. 
Eligibility
1. All the new and existing units must have their operations in Goa.
2. The applicant must be one of the below:
Proprietorship Firm
Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Public Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Registered Partnership Firm incorporated under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (or equivalent)
Limited Liability Partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (or equivalent)
3. The bank accounts of the unit and/or its partner(s)/director(s) should be linked to Aadhaar.
4. The bank accounts of Freshers should be linked to Aadhaar.
5. The Fresher should be recruited through campus placement. The assistance becomes payable after the said Fresher completes at least 6 months of continuous employment.
6. The Freshers should be recruited directly through campus placement from educational institutes in Goa during the operation of the policy.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Web Portal of Goa Online. At the top right corner, click "Register".
Step 2: On the next page, verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form. Create a Login Name and a strong Password. Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 4: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 5: In the top ribbon, click on "Services", then click on "IT Services". Click on the name of the scheme. You will be taken to the application form for the scheme. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: Submit the application. A unique registration number will be generated. Note this number for future reference.
NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme on a quarterly/bi-annually/annual basis after incurring the relevant expenditure. 

Disbursement Timeline
Incentive Application Receipt: D
Application scrutiny as per checklist: D+30days
Application approval by the Empowered Committee: D+60 days
Issue of Regret Letter/Sanction Orders and Disbursement: D+90 days
Documents Required
1. Copy of Incorporation Certificate
2. Copy of new unit registration document/certificate
3. Copies of PAN, Aadhaar, and GST TIN
4. Memorandum and Articles of Association
5. Copy of first bill generated showing the date of commencement of operations or other relevant document
6. Details of employees and percentage of employees of Goan origin
7. Letter(s) from Training and Placement Cell of corresponding educational institute(s) validating campus recruitment by the Unit. The letter should include a list of all candidates recruited, their area of study, year of graduation, and date of campus recruitment
8. Udyog Aadhaar.
