Pre-Matric Scholarship
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
EducationFinancial AssistanceStudent Welfare
Details
Education is top seeded to uplift the backward classes. Because of lack of education, a social category remains backward. Inspite of long duration passed since independence of the country, expected improvement is not seen in the educational status of Other Backward Classes. Many efforts have been made to improve the educational status.  At present, Fee Reimbursement scheme is being operated in online mode by Department of Backward Classes Welfare with the objective of development of backward classes and uplifting their educational status.  Under this scheme, students of Other Backward Classes studying in all government schools, aided and recognized educational institute are being provided with the scholarship each year.  Department of Backward Classes Welfare is continuously working to uplift the educational status of backward classes.

Benefits
Monthly Rs. 150/- for a maximum of 10 months. 
Annually Rs. 750/- ad hoc grant in one go.
Eligibility
Native and studying in Uttar Pradesh. 
Annual income of the parents/guardians of the students upto Rs. 2 Lakh.
Students studying in government schools, aided and recognized educational institutes (provided the availability of the budget). ред
Application Process
Online
First of all, OBC students need to click on Option in the Student Section of  website.
Student Registration.
Fill out the application form.
Print out of application form.
Deposit the print out along with all the enclosures in the educational institute.
Verify and forward the application form by an educational institute.
Verify and forward the application by Education Officer.
Examine and match the data at state N.I.C. level.
Approve/disapprove by the District Approval Committee.
Lock the approved data with the digital signature by District Backward Class Welfare Officer.
Generate the demand by the Directorate based on the data available on N.I.C.
Depositing of the amount directly in the bank account of the student.
Documents Required
UP Residential Proof: Students can upload any of the following documents- Ration card, Aadhaar card, Voter ID, driving license, or PAN card.
Student caste certificate.
Family income certificate.
Student ID proof is issued by the educational institution.
Mark sheets of qualifying examination
Current year fee receipt/admission letter issued by the educational institution
Student bank passbook
