Vyasakabi Fakir Mohan Bhasabruti Scholarship
Odisha
Higher EducationScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme "Vyasakabi Fakir Mohan Bhasabruti Scholarship" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Higher Education Department, Government of Odisha. The objective of the scheme is the promotion of Odia Language by way of encouraging meritorious students to take up higher studies in Odia Language at U.G. and P.G. level. This is one time scholarship of ₹ 20,000/- per student. There are 1500 scholarships awarded every year out of which 1200 are for the "Students studying UG with Odia Honours" Category, and 300 are for the "Students studying PG in Odia" Category.

Benefits
This is a one-time scholarship of ₹ 20,000/- per student.
There are 1500 scholarships awarded every year out of which 1200 are for the "Students studying UG with Odia Honours" Category, and 300 are for the "Students studying PG in Odia" Category.
A student availing of other scholarships is also eligible for this Bhasabruti.
Eligibility
Students who have been admitted in +3 Arts with Odia as Honours subject (1St Year) in Degree Colleges / Autonomous Colleges/ State Universities of Odisha or other states after passing +2 Examination with 60% marks aggregate conducted by CHSE, Odisha will be eligible for applying for this Scholarship at U.G. level. 
The students who have taken admitted to M.A. (Odia) in any of the State Universities/ Degree Colleges and Autonomous Colleges in Odisha after securing 60% marks in Odia Honours subject will also be eligible for this Scholarship at the P.G. level.
A student availing of other scholarships is also eligible for this Bhasabruti.
The students will be selected on the basis of marks secured in the qualifying examination, i.e., students pursuing +3 Arts having Odia as an Honours subject will be selected on the basis of their overall marks in the +2 examination conducted by CHSE, Odisha. 
The students pursuing M.A. (Odia) will be selected on the basis of the marks secured in Odia Honours in the +3 Arts final examinations. Basing on the common merit list for both categories the targeted beneficiaries will be selected (if the number of eligible applicants is more than the target).

NOTE: Students pursuing their higher studies through distance learning/ correspondence courses are not eligible for such scholarships.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/
Step 2: Click on "Registration".
Step 3: Read the Instructions/Declaration carefully. 
Step 4: Select the Checkbox and Click "I Agree".
Step 5: On the next page, provide your Aadhaar Number, Mobile Number, and all the mandatory fields: Name, Gender, Date of Birth, and Email ID. Click "Register".

You will be successfully registered on the portal. Your login details will be displayed on the confirmation page.
Your login credentials will also be sent to the registered Mobile Number and Email ID.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/. Click "Login". Now click on "Student Login". Login using the credentials received on your Email ID / Mobile Number.
Step 2: Click on the "Schemes And Scholarship" section. Optionally, you can check your eligibility for the scheme by clicking "View Eligibility". Else click "Online Application Module For Scholarship And Loan". 
Step 3: Select "Vyasakabi Fakir Mohan Bhasabruti Scholarship" from the dropdown menu. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the said file type and filesize.
Step 4: Click "Submit". Take two printed hard copies of the online application along with relevant documents, and submit the same to the Principal/ Head of the Institution for further processing.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of the Student
Residence Certificate of the Student
Passbook of Bank Account with Account Number and IFSC Code of the Bank Branch
Passport Size Photograph of Student
College ID Card of the Student
Marksheet of Last Exam Passed
