Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme for the Wards/Widows of Central Police Force Personnel
Ministry Of Home Affairs
Central Police ForceCPFEx-servicemenScholarshipWardsWidow
Details
The scheme “Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme for the Wards/Widows of Central Police Force Personnel” was introduced by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India in the Academic year 2006-07 to encourage higher technical and professional education for the wards of widows and ex-CPFs personnel. Service conditions of Central Police Forces (CPFs) Personnel are extremely exacting, tough, rigorous, and peculiar to the Services. The service condition often keeps these personnel away from family for long spells. This leads to neglect of family matters including the education of children.
         Prime Minister has announced 5000 scholarships for the wards of ex-servicemen/widows of army personnel as well as para-military forces including the  Railway Protection Force for pursuing advanced education in the field of Medical Engineering/IT and other technical subjects which would be funded out of the interest income generated out of National Defence Fund. Out of the total 5000 scholarships, 1000 scholarships have been allocated to the  Ministry of Home Affairs and Railways. On the basis of the strength of the forces, it has been decided that 910 scholarships for CPFs controlled by MHA and 90 for the Railways Protection Force controlled by the  Ministry of Railways.

Benefits
Amount of Scholarship:
1. ₹1250/- per month for boys
2. ₹1500/- per month for girls
Duration of the Scholarship:
1. Two to five years as approved by the concerned regulatory body for the programme.
Eligibility
1. Persons eligible for the scholarship:
(a) Wards and widows of CPFs personnel died in harness.
(b) Wards of ex-CPFs personnel disabled while on duty.
(c) Wards of ex-CPFs personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards.
(d) Wards & widows of Ex-CPFs/in-service personnel (Below Officer Rank i.e. up to the rank of Subedar Major /Inspector only). 
2. Order of preference: If the number of applications for scholarship exceeds the approved number of scholarships, the order of preference for allotment of scholarships will be as under:-
i) Category-A Wards/Widows of CPFs personnel killed in action.
ii) Category-B Wards of ex-CPFs personnel disabled in action.
iii) Category-C Wards of ex-CPFs personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards 
iv) Category-D Wards/Widows of CPFs personnel who died in harness
v) Category-E Wards of ex-CPFs personnel disabled while in service with disability attributable to Govt. Service.
vi) Category-F Wards of ex-CPFs personnel (PBOR)
vii) Category-G Wards of in-service personnel (PBOR) subject to availability of scholarship on a merit basis.
3. Courses eligible for the Scholarship:
First professional degree programme in engineering, medicine, dental, veterinary, MBA, MCA, etc. duly recognized by the respective government regulatory bodies, such as All India Council for Technical Education, Medical Council of India, etc.
4. Academic requirement:
At least 60% marks at the 10+2 level for the initial sanction. For renewal in subsequent years, 50% marks each year is mandatory.
Note 01: The scheme is open for widows and unmarried wards of CPFs personnel. However, marriage/re-marriage subsequently would not disqualify a person.
Note 02: The scholarship is admissible for two children only per family. Since the scholarship from PM’s Scheme is restricted to 2 children only, therefore particulars of all children should be indicated in the appropriate column.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applications are invited from eligible candidates by 30th November of each year.
Step 02: Each applicant should submit his/her application to the concerned force Head Quarter. (Application Form- Annexure)
Step 03: After scrutiny, all applications of selected candidates should be sent to the Chairman, Welfare And Rehabilitation Board, CPFs, CGO Complex, New Delhi so as to reach by 15th December of each year.
Step 04: The final list of selected candidates will be prepared by WARB and should be forwarded to MHA by 31st December each year for further necessary action.
Step 05: Selected applicants will be informed directly by the WARB, CPFs, Ministry of Home Affairs.
Note 01: Application received directly by WARB and MHA will not be entertained as the checklist enclosed with the application is required to be verified by the concerned forces Head Quarter.
Note 02: Incomplete application forms and applications received after the specified date will NOT be considered. A wrong or misleading entry will lead to rejection of the application. Any deletion/correction should be initiated by the applicant himself/herself.
Note 03: The respective offices will acknowledge receipt of only those applications received by the due date. Late receipted applications will not be processed.
Note 04: Two stamped self-addressed envelopes of 27x12 cms are to be attached with each application so as to facilitate acknowledgement of receipt of the application form.
Note 05: If an applicant granted a scholarship on the basis of the statement made in the application is at any subsequent date found to have made a false statement in any respect, both the wards of ex-CPFs personnel /widow will forfeit the scholarship and no application from the ex-CPFs personnel /widow would be entertained in future. In addition, the scholarship already granted would also have to be refunded.
Note 06: The attested photocopies of the supporting legal documents duly attested by any Gazetted Officer or Unit Commander of CPFs are to be attached to the application form.
Note 07: If the marks in the qualifying examination are expressed in grades only, then an equivalent percentage (100 point scale) duly certified by the concerned Board must be furnished.
Note 08: All wards applying for scholarships will open individual bank accounts in the principal bank designated by the Institute concerned and the account number must be mentioned in the application form for release of scholarship payment.
Note 09: A person having been granted a scholarship for one programme would not be entitled to the scholarship for another programme.
Note 10: The scheme is open for courses mentioned above in recognized institutions irrespective of its location in the country vis-à-vis the residence/domicile of the wards of the CPFs personnel/widows.
Note 11: The payment for the scholarship will be centrally made by the Welfare And Rehabilitation Board, CPFs directly, through account payee cheques, to be credited to the personal account of the individual ward/the mode of electronic clearing system. The first priority of the scholarship will be given to the account number which has an “electronic clearance system”
Note 12: The amount of scholarship, including any other scholarship or financial assistance from any other source, should not exceed the total grant of assistance available under this scheme.
Note 13: The Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India can suitably modify these instructions to remove difficulties, if any, for successful implementation of the scheme, as may be deemed necessary from time to time.
Documents Required
Documents to be attached to the Application Form:
An Attested photocopy of matriculation or equivalent examination certificate for verification of date of birth.
An Attested photocopy of the mark sheet of 10 + 2/equivalent examination.
In the case of MBA/MCA applicants, an attested copy of the minimum entry qualification certificate.
Bonafide studentship certificate to be issued by Registrar/Dean/Principal of College/Institution pertaining to the particular course for which scholarship is claimed.
Attested photocopy of the previous academic year’s mark sheet for the continuation of the scholarship.
Certificate in original from College/Institution that the applicant has not dropped in any year of the course.
Certificate from College/Institute that the Institution is approved by AICTE/MCI etc. or as the case may be.
Attested copy of discharge certificate / I-card issued by the unit commander of the concerned force as proof of ex-CPF personnel.
Copy of PPO (Special Family Pension in case of widows & Special Family Pension/Liberalized Family Pension order in case of widows of service personnel where the death of the individual is attributable to government services).
Attested Copy of relationship/dependency certificate.
(Copy of death certificate of Ex-CPFs personnel wherever applicable. (m) Declaration cum pre-receipt (in original) duly signed by the recipient on one rupee revenue stamp.
In the case of the ward of in-service personnel (PBOR) necessary certificate from the concerned unit commandant.
Disability certificate in case of ward of disabled personnel duly certified by the competent authority. 
