Prosthetic Aid Scheme
Jammu and Kashmir
Artificial LimbPersons With DisabilityProsthetic AidSocial Welfare
Details
In the "Prosthetic Aid Scheme", Prosthetic Aids and Artificial Appliances (Tricycles, Wheel Chairs, Crutches, Hearing Aids, and Artificial Limbs, etc) are provided to Persons with Disability (e.g. blind, deaf, orthopedically or physically handicapped) by the Social Welfare Department, thereby enabling them to live a comfortable life. The beneficiary shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu & Kashmir can apply for this scheme.

Benefits
Prosthetic Aids and Artificial Appliances (Tricycles, Wheel Chairs, Crutches, Hearing Aids, Artificial Limbs, etc) are provided.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the State/UT of Jammu & Kashmir.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (PwD) (e.g. blind, deaf, orthopedically or physically handicapped).
The family income of the applicant should be less than ₹ 400/- per month.
The applicant should not already be availing the benefits of the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.

Post-Application Processes:
Step 1: On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant with regard to the DSWO disability and type of prosthetic aid required shall consolidate the list and forward it to the District Level Sanctioning Committee.
Step 2: The District Level Sanctioning Committee authorizes the District Social Welfare Officer to purchase these aids/fitments from the approved agencies for onward disbursement among the sanctioned beneficiaries.

Check Application Status:
The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) / Deputy Commissioner/ Composite Rehabilitation Center (CRC) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme.
Documents Required
Disability Certificate (in the prescribed form by the Surgeon / Orthopedic / ENT specialist, countersigned by the Superintendents of the Hospitals / District Medical Officers) indicating the type of disability and appropriate prosthetic aid required by the applicant. 
Income Certificate (in the prescribed form from a Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar or an affidavit attested by a Gazetted Officer / 1st Class Magistrate or a certificate from a Gazetted Officer of Central / State Government or a Member of the Parliament / State Legislature) indicating the monthly income of the family from all sources.
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State/UT of Jammu & Kashmir
3 Passport-Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Aadhaar Card.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
