Atma Nirbhar Bagwani Yojana
Arunachal Pradesh
FarmersSubsidyUmbrella Scheme
Details
Atma Nirbhar Bagwani Yojana is an umbrella scheme wherein all the schemes are subsumed under a bank linked credit subsidy scheme which will have a time bound implementation and participation from various stakeholders – Government, Bank, Project Consultants and Progressive Farmers. The beneficiaries under the scheme will be eligible for 45% subsidy from Government of Arunachal Pradesh, 45% bank finance and 10% beneficiaries contribution. The beneficiary will have to provide a collateral security in the shape of land/property or acceptable guarantee for loan amount exceeding 1.6 Lakhs in case of individual and 10 lakhs for SHGs/FPOs. Under this scheme, the following components are included for availing of bank loan: 
    Arecanut
    Pineapple
    Avocado
    Dragon Fruit
    Orange
    Banana
    Guava
    Tractor
    Power Tiller
    Brush Cutter

Benefits
    Atmanirbhar Bagwani Yojna is basically meant for the cultivation of fruits like apples, walnut, orange, kiwi, and persimmon. 

    The line of credit will be provided by the State Bank Of India, Arunachal Pradesh Rural Bank, and Arunachal Pradesh Cooperative Apex Bank. 
    45 percent will be given by the government subsidy, 45 percent as bank loan and 10 percent will be contributed by the farmer.
    There is no collateral for loans up to Rs 1.60 lakh.
    For SHGs, no collateral is needed up to Rs 10 lakhs.
Eligibility
The scheme is focused on the residents and farmers of Arunachal Pradesh.
Application Process
Offline
The Chief Minister revealed that he has offered to host the proposed regional level oil palm business summit at Namsai anytime soon. Besides attracting investors, he said the summit will also educate farmers of the state. MoUs were signed between the state government and the banks viz., State Bank of India, State Cooperative Apex Bank and State Rural Bank to mark the occasion.

Application Form: 
https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s3819f46e52c25763a55cc642422644317/uploads/2022/05/2022052453.pdf
Documents Required

The people under Atma nirbhar Bagwani Yojana will be able to take the benefit of the loan that is collateral-free. The Chief Minister said that no land document such as Land Possession Certificate will be taken to provide the loan. Only 
Aadhaar Card.
Voter Card.
Residential Certificate.
A valid Bank Account
