National Handicrafts Development Programme: Research & Development Scheme
Ministry Of Textiles
Grant-in-AidHandicraftResearchTextile
Details
The "Research & Development Scheme" is a component of the Umbrella Scheme "National Handicrafts Development Programme (NHDP)" by the Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India. The scheme is introduced to generate feedback on the economic, social, aesthetic, and promotional aspects of various crafts and artisans in the handicraft sector. Under this scheme, the surveys and studies are sponsored/conducted to generate suitable inputs for planning purposes. Also, workshops, seminars, conferences, radio programs, etc. are organized in online as well as offline mode to sensitize the artisans on the latest development in the Handicrafts sector.

Key Highlights:
1.  Surveys & Studies
a) Surveys/ Studies of specific crafts and mapping and documentation of a database on craft clusters and specific craft pockets, present market trend and status, existing export and future export openings, etc.
b) Problem relating to the availability of raw materials, technology, design, common facilities, etc.
c) Socioeconomic condition of the artisan.
d) Market evaluation studies of specific crafts for either domestic or overseas markets.
e) Techno-economic feasibility studies and post-evaluation of the various promotional projects programs undertaken in the handicrafts sector.
2.  Financial Assistance for registration of GI crafts (including registration of authorized users), preparation of legal para, standards, audits, and other documentation leading to labeling/certification.
3.  Financial Assistance to organizations for evolving, and developing a mechanism for protecting crafts including Endangered crafts, design, heritage, and traditional knowledge.
4.  Conducting a Census of Handicraft artisans of the country and publishing the same in handbook/e-book format for future reference. 
5.  Assisting handicrafts exporters in the adoption of global standards, including handicrafts marks, branding, bar coding, and other similar standards
6.  Conducting workshops/seminars on issues of specific issues relating to the handicrafts sector.
7.  Evaluation / Impact Assessment Studies of Handicrafts Schemes.
8. Need-based financial assistance to Government departments/ministries, institutes of national importance and export promotional councils, etc.

Benefits
The financial assistance shall be extended to eligible organizations as 100% grants in aid.
The payments to all beneficiaries/concerned must be made through PFMS only.
The disbursement of the assistance will be in two installments:
a)  1st Installment: 75% of the sanctioned amount will be released as an advance.
b)  2nd Installment: 25% of the sanctioned amount will be in the form of reimbursement.

a) Financial Assistance for Conducting Studies/Surveys:
Head: Project Leader (1); Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹ per month): 50,000/-
Head: Senior Research Expert (2); Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹ per month): 35,000/-
Head: Junior Research Fellow (2); Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹ per month): 25,000/-
Head: Investigator [Graduate] (3); Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹ per month): 15,000/-
Head: Computer Operator (1); Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹ per month): 10,000/-
Head: Documentation & Videography; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 50,000/-
Head: TA/DA; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹ per month): 18,000/-
Head: Miscellaneous; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 5% of the total cost i.e., from (1) to (7).
Head: Administrative Charges; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 3% of total project cost (1) to (8).

b) Financial Assistance for One-day Seminar/Workshop:
Head: Halls & Infrastructure; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 60,000/-
Head: Boarding & Lodging for Resource Persons (Max. 4); Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 9,000/- per head
Head: T.A. to Resource Persons; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 12,000/- per person or AC-I/Air-Fare economy class whichever is less.
Head: For International Experts; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 70,000 /- per person or economy class airfare, whichever is less.
Head: Honorarium to Resource Persons; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 4,000/- per person
Head: T.A. to participants including journey period; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 2,000/- per participant/artisan or AC-III tier fare whichever is less.
Head: DA to the participants; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 300/- per participant/artisan
Head: Documentation & Videography; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 40,000/-
Head: Hiring of Conveyance; Maximum Permissible Amount (in ₹): 50,000/-
Head: Refreshments & Tea, Lunch, etc; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 400/- per participant/artisan
Head: Publicity including banners, backdrops, pamphlets, booklet, etc; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 65,000/-
Head: Miscellaneous; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 5% of the total cost, i.e., from (1) to (10). 
Head: Administrative Cost; Max. Permissible Amount (in ₹): 3% of total project cost, i.e., from (1) to (11).

Note 1: The project duration of the Survey/Study can vary from 3 months to 12 months and the duration of the Seminar/Workshop is one day.
Note 2: In special cases, the number of days and financial limit can be increased with special approval of the Competent Authority.
Eligibility
Grants-in-aid can be given to a public body or an institution having a distinct legal entity viz. 
Institutions or Organizations setup as Autonomous Organisations, under a specific statute or as a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, or Indian Trusts Act, 1882.
Producer Companies and Section-8 Companies (Company Act, 2013).
Non-Government Organizations.
Educational and Other Institutions.
Urban and Rural Local Self-government Institutions.
Export Promotion Councils.
Central Cottage Industries Emporium (CCIC).
National Crafts Museum & Hastkala Academy, New Delhi.
State/Central Govt. Agencies etc. 

The applicant should certify the following in the application form:
No financial assistance has been received from any other source for the same purpose.
The provision of the scheme has been fully understood and we take responsibility for the successful completion of the project within the sanctioned project duration.
All infrastructure is available with the organization to conduct the programs as per the scheme.
There is no duplication of efforts taking Place with existing schemes of the Ministries.
No UC is pending in any scheme of the O/o DC (Handicrafts).
The organization is registered with Public Finance Management System and will adhere to the Provisions/guidelines of the Department of Expenditure from time to time, in this regard.
 
Application Process
Online
Step 1: The eligible agencies should submit the proposal for conducting Study/Survey and /or Seminar/workshop, as per the prescribed proforma, through the NGO Portal only (Govt. agencies can submit the proposal through either online or offline mode).

Step 2: A committee under the chairmanship of the Development Commissioner (Handicrafts) will be formed for consideration of proposals received from NGOs, as per the delegation of financial power of the Development Commissioner of (Handicrafts). The proposals of govt. agencies will be considered on a first come first basis and the availability of funds. 

Step 3: The proposals having financial implications more than the financial power of the Development Commissioner (Handicrafts) will be brought before the Project Approval and Monitoring Committee (PAMC), chaired by the Secretary (Textiles), including a representative from IFW, Ministry of Textiles.
Documents Required
Fresh Proposals:
Proposal in prescribed proforma.
Valid Registration Certificate under proper statute/copy of empanelment certificate of DC (HC) in case of NGO / copy of incorporation certificate in case of companies. [Self-attested]
Article & Memorandum of Association.
Bye-Laws.
Three years Balance Sheet, Annual Report & audited (by a chartered accountant) balance sheet/statement of accounts. [Self-attested]
Required Affidavits: The organization is not involved in any corrupt practices and has not been black-listed by any central/state agencies.
List of proposed beneficiaries as the case/intervention may be.
Details of proposed locations/DPR.
All documents should be attested by Implementing Agency.
Copy of Empanelled Certificate issued by O/o DC (Handicrafts).
Name and address of the Bank, Account Number, and IFSC code where the organization has its account. 

Reimbursement Proposals:
1. Specific recommendations from Regional Director/ Asst. Director concerned.
2. Verification report (the gist of expenditure) in the prescribed format. 
3. Statement of Expenditure with the mode of payment may be clearly specified.
4. Utilization Certification in GFR 12A duly verified/certified by Chartered Accountant and countersigned by Implementing Agency.
5. Adited statement of Accounts verified/certified by Chartered Accountant (with membership No.) and countersigned by 
Implementing Agency.
6. Inspection Report.
7. List of beneficiaries Artisans with details. 
8. Performance cum Achievement Report/Documentation Report.
9. Bio Data of MCP/Designer/ Resource Person. 
10. Photographs of events and soft copy and videography in soft copy with attendance of artisans. 

Source: http://www.handicrafts.nic.in/Pdf/final_citizen.pdf
