Delhi Pension Scheme To Women In Distress (Widow Pension)
Delhi
DistressPensionSocial WelfareWidow
Details
Delhi Pension Scheme to Women in Distress (Widow Pension) is a welfare scheme of the Government of the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi to provide social security by way of financial assistance to widows, divorced, separated, abandoned, deserted or destitute women in the age group of 18 years to lifelong who do not have adequate means of subsistence and are poor, needy and vulnerable.

Benefits
The quantum of financial assistance under this scheme is ₹ 2,500/- per month.
Eligibility
A woman who is a widow, divorced, separated, abandoned, deserted, or destitute woman above the age of 18 years of lifelong.
Residence of a minimum of 5 years in Delhi before the date of application. 
The annual income of the applicant should be less than ₹ 1,00,000/-per annum from all sources (including rent, interest/dividends on savings & investments, earnings from the farm, property sale proceeds, etc.) of the applicant. 
Applicant should have the Aadhar number 
The Applicant should have a single-operated Aadhar-linked account with any bank in the NCT of Delhi only. 
Must not be receiving any pension/ financial assistance from Central Govt./ State Govt./MCD or NDMC and other Governmental/local bodies or any other source for this purpose.
Application Process
Online
Offline
The application is to be made online on the e-District portal (Delhi) Link: https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/

Steps to register on the e-district portal of GNCTD - 
Step 1: Log on to https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/ 
Step 2: Under Citizen Corner click on "New User"
Step 3: Click on select the document – Aadhar or Voter ID 
Step 4: Enter your Aadhar Card Number/Voter ID Card Number 
Step 5: Type the Captcha in the box shown. The "Citizen Registration Form" will Open.
Step 6: Fill up all fields including details of the Present Residential Address 
Step 7: Enter Captcha, and Click on Continue. 
Step 8: Login ID and Password will be received on the given mobile number/e-mail address. 
Step 9: Now Registration on the e-district portal is complete 

 Steps to register for the scheme -  
Step 1: Click on Registered User Login. Enter the given login ID and Password. Enter Captcha and Click on Login.
Step 2: Go to Main Page (Main Page) will open click on apply online. Drop Box applies for services will open – click on the link.
Step 3: A list of Departments providing online services shall open – Select the Department of Women & Child Development. 
Step 4: Three Financial Assistance Schemes will be shown. Choose the relevant scheme and Click on Apply. 
Step 5: Check the BASIC/PERSONAL DETAILS FORM and click on Continue. The form will open fill up all required fields & upload all required documents as per the requirement of the scheme selected. 
Step 6: Then click next and upload the photograph. Then click on finish. One OTP will be received on the registered mobile number. Enter OTP and Submit. 
Step 7: Acknowledgment of successful submission shall be generated. 
Documents Required
Aadhar Card
Self-attested documentary proof for the following needs to be scanned and uploaded. 
Age proof 
Proof of Death of Husband/ Divorce decree/ Separation paper/ Divorce proceedings/ any other document which establishes abandoned/separation. 
Residence proof of last 5-year residence in Delhi. 
Bank account number (Single –operated) in Delhi only. Which is linked with Aadhar. 
Bank passbook/statement for the last year. 
In the case of an SC/ST applicant, a certificate in the name of the applicant issued by a competent authority has to be submitted. In the case of minority applicants self-declaration of the religion of the applicant duly verified by the religious institution has to be submitted. 
One passport-size photo of the applicant. 
Income self-declaration (Format given on the portal can be used) 
