Maternity Benefit Scheme (APB&OCWWB)
Arunachal Pradesh
Cash AssistanceConstruction WorkerMaternityWomen
Details
The scheme “Maternity Benefit Scheme” was launched by the Department of Labour and Employment, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh for Registered Workers of Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB). The state government has proposed and implemented this scheme through the APB&OCWWB to its women workers who have registered their names in the Labour Welfare Board.
Objective:
 • To mitigate suffering in the course of delivery and to supplement well upbringing of the infant.

Benefits
Cash assistance of ₹1000/- during the period of maternity
Payable for up to two adult daughters of registered workers.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. The applicant should be a woman.
3. The woman worker must be employed in the Building and Other Construction works.
4. The woman worker should be registered with Labour Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
5. The applicant's membership must be active at the time of application.
Note: The woman worker is not to be entitled to the benefits in case of second marriage.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant is to register herself as a labour/worker under the Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
Step 02: The applicant can obtain the application form from the Registered Office of the District/Sub-Division, APB&OCWWB which can also be downloaded from the official website of the Department of Labour and Employment.
Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to the concerned department.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant will be registered as a worker/labour under Board and an Identity Card to be issued to her.
Application Process:
Step 01: For taking benefit of this scheme, the applicant needs to visit the nearest registered office of the District/Sub-Division, APB&OCWWB along with all the relevant documents.
Step 02: Application in the prescribed format may be received from the concerned office.
Step 03: The applicant needs to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents. Thereafter, the applicant may submit the application form to the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card, etc.
Xerox copy of the registration card
Medical Certificate
Bank Account number/ front page of the passbook
Complete application form
Passport-size photographs
Address proof
