SMILE - Comprehensive Rehabilitation For Welfare Of Transgender Persons
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
RehabilitationScholarshipSecondary EducationSenior Secondary EducationTransgender
Details
Financial assistance in the form of scholarships is provided to Transgender students studying in secondary school (IX & X)  & senior secondary school (XI & XII) to reduce the incidence of dropout and support their educational aspirations.
Objectives:
The objective is to provide financial assistance to Transgender students studying in IX and above to enable them to complete their education.
 To support Transgender students to study further in order to prepare themselves to earn their livelihood and to find a dignified place for themselves in society as they face several barriers physical, financial, psychological, and mental in pursuing studies and living with dignity. At times such students are deprived of harnessing their latent skills and thereby miss the opportunity.
 The scholarship shall be awarded to students studying in a government or private higher secondary school/college/university, including such residential institutes of the Government and eligible private institutes selected and notified in a transparent manner by the State Government/Union Territory Administration concerned. 
The scheme will also cover technical and vocational courses in Industrial Training Institutes/ Industrial Training Centres affiliated with the National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT) of classes XI and XII level including Polytechnics and other courses (any course of less than one-year duration not covered under this scheme.
All eligible candidates identifying as Transgender Persons will be considered for scholarship. As the number of scholarships for Transgender persons available in a year is fixed and limited, the selection of applications would be on the basis of total marks achieved in the previous academic year as reflected in the mark sheet.
Terms and Conditions:
The scholarship is dependent on the satisfactory progress and conduct of the Transgender student. If it is reported by the Head of the Institution/School at any time that the student has by reasons of their own act of default failed to make satisfactory progress or has been guilty of misconduct such as resorting to or participating in strikes, irregularity in attendance without the permission of the authorities concerned, etc. The authority sanctioning the scholarship may either cancel the scholarship or stop or withhold further payment for such a period as it may dream fit.
If a student violates school discipline or any other terms and conditions of the scholarship, the scholarship may be suspended or cancelled.
If a student is found to have obtained a scholarship by false statement, his/her scholarship will be cancelled forthwith and the amount of the scholarship already paid will be recovered by the Ministry along with penal interest as per applicable rules. The student concerned will be blacklisted and debarred for future scholarships in any scheme forever.
A transgender student is liable to refund the scholarship amount, if during the course of the year, the studies for which the scholarship has been awarded, are discontinued by the student.

Benefits
A sum of ₹13,500/- shall be given as post-matric / pre-matric scholarships to eligible transgender students once every year.
Eligibility
The student should have a Transgender Certificate issued through the National Portal for Transgender person of the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment
The scholarships are open to Indian Nationals only.
The candidate should not be receiving any other central or state government-funded Pre-Matric/Post-Matric Scholarship. No scholarship will be paid to the students under this scheme from the date they accept another scholarship/stipend. The candidate can, however, accept free lodging or a grant or ad-hoc monetary help from the State Government or any other source for the purchase of books, and equipment or for meeting the expenses on board and lodging in addition to the scholarship amount paid under this scheme
Criteria of selection for scholarship:
All eligible candidates identifying as Transgender Persons will be considered for scholarship. As the number of scholarships for Transgender persons available in a year is fixed and limited, the selection of applications would be on the basis of total marks achieved in the previous academic year as reflected in the mark sheet.
In case of the same merit, preference shall be generated from the ‘Date of Birth’ criteria of the applicant (senior is preferred) and based on the availability of the slots.
In the Scholarship, students applying for Post-Matric shall be given preference over Pre-Matric Scholarship.
The list of selected candidates would be displayed on the portal at a specified date considering, inter alia, the number of slots available for the scholarship.
Conditions for Scholarships for Secondary School (IX & X) Transgender Students:
The candidate should be a regular, full-time student studying in a Government School or in a School recognized by the Government or a Central/State Board of secondary education.
Migration of students from one school/institute to another, the student shall submit a certificate from the competent authority, in this case, the institution.
Scholarships for studying in any class will be available for only one year. If a student has to repeat a class, the candidate would not get a scholarship for that class for a second (or subsequent) year.
Conditions for Scholarships for Senior Secondary School (XI & XII) Transgender Students:
The candidate should be a regular, full-time student studying in a Government School or in a School recognized by the Government or a Central/State Board of secondary education.
Migration of students from one school/institute to another, the student shall submit a certificate from the competent authority, in this case, the institution.
Scholarships for studying in any class will be available for only one year. If a student has to repeat a class, the candidate would not get a scholarship for that class for a second (or subsequent) year.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: One can visit the official website. Link: http://transgender.dosje.gov.in
Step 02: On the Home page click on “Registration” and after registration, one will receive a login password for access to the account via the registered email ID. (Already registered applicant directly “Login” and Click on “Scholarship” to fill in the details)
Step 03: After the email is received with the password, one needs to click on “Application Login” and “Login” with the credentials.
Step 04: After Login, one can see “Dashboard” with the “Scholarship” option. Click on “Scholarship” then select Education Level.
Step 05: After selecting of educational level, one will get an Application Number by clicking “Get Your Application Number”
Step 06: Go to the master application form where one has to fill in details as per the requirement mentioned such as Profile, Education, Course details, Bank Details, Document upload, and declaration.
Step 07: In the Document Upload sections one needs to be sure that the Transgender Certificate & ID are already generated without an ID & certificate one cannot complete this process.
Step 08: Please be sure whatever information provided is correct by declaring the details and uploading the student's Passport Photo, Signature, and Parent/Guardian signature. Submit the application form.
How to get a Transgender Identity Certificate:
To get a transgender certificate one can visit the home page of the Website Link: http://transgender.dosje.gov.in/
Select “Online Registration” and then click on “Register here”
Type Name, Email ID, and contact no., Select state and district from the drop-down menu, enter the CAPTCHA text, and click on REGISTER.
On successful registration, the system will send a confirmation with the credentials, by mail.
After this process, you are required to login with the credentials that have been sent through the mail (i.e. username/ Email ID, and Password) in the same portal. Enter the CAPTCHA text and click on SIGN IN.
On clicking ‘New application’ you will be redirected to the above-mentioned page Here, you can see two categories i.e. for New and revised copy at the drop-down menu.
Select the state and district from the given drop-down menu
Enter your Given name and change your name to capital letters
Select the name that is to be printed on the certificate (Given/Chosen)
Enter your Parent’s name and Contact number.
Select Assigned gender and requested application from the drop-down menu.
Mention your Annual income with Educational qualification
Select your birth date from the box provided
You are required to upload the appropriate document by selecting any one of the documents from the list & Click “Browse” button
The selected file will be uploaded with the image shown on your screen as given above.
On clicking on Add more button you can add more documents with image
After uploading the document you can view the same 
You are now required to enter the Permanent address
After clicking on the save & next button, the form is finally submitted.
Documents Required
Fresh Application:
Self-attested passport-size photograph of the student 
Transgender Identity Certificate issued through the National portal for transgender persons of the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment.
A declaration by the parents/guardians, stating that their ward is not availing such scholarship in any other scheme of Centre/ State Government for education.
Certificate of previous academic year’s mark sheet attested by the Institute.
Self-attested copy of Aadhaar Card
Transfer certificate in case the student has migrated to another.
Institute verification form duly attested by the school/college/institute.
Students shall be encouraged to have a linked bank account to facilitate payments through Aadhar Payment Bridge while applying for the scholarship which should have the same name as stipulated in the transgender certificate issued through the National Portal for Transgender person of the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment.
For Renewal
Certificate of previous academic score not less than qualifying marks attested by the institute.
