Scheme Of Assistance To Disabled Persons For Purchase/Fitting Of Aids/Appliances
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
Aids And AppliancesPerson With DisabilityPwDSocial Welfare
Details
The "Scheme of Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase/Fitting of Aids/Appliances" or the "ADIP Scheme" was launched on 1st Jan 1981 by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, to assist the disabled persons in procuring suitable, durable, scientifically-manufactured, modern, standard aids and appliances, that can promote their physical, social and psychological rehabilitation by reducing the effects of disabilities and enhance their economic potential. Assistive devices are given to PwDs with the aim to improve their independent functioning and to arrest the extent of disability and occurrence of secondary disability. The Scheme shall also include under its ambit, medical/surgical correction & intervention, which is essential prior to the fitment of aids and appliances. The cost could range from ₹ 500/- for the hearing & speech impaired to ₹ 1,000/- for the visually disabled and ₹ 3,000/- for the Orthopaedically disabled. The Scheme is approved for continuation upto 31st March 2026.

Objective - 
The main objective of the Scheme is to assist needy disabled persons in procuring durable, sophisticated, scientifically manufactured, modern, standard aids and appliances that can promote their physical, social and psychological rehabilitation, by reducing the effects of disabilities and enhancing their economic potential.

Scope - 
The Scheme will be implemented through the Implementing Agencies. The Agencies will be provided with financial assistance for the purchase, fabrication, and distribution of such standard aids and appliances that are in conformity with the objective of the Scheme. The Implementing Agencies will take care of/make suitable arrangements for fitting and post-fitting care of the aids and appliances distributed under the ADIP Scheme. The scope of the scheme has been further enlarged to include the use of mass media, exhibitions, workshops, etc. for the exchange of information and promoting awareness and distribution and use of aids/appliances.

Benefits
QUANTUM OF ASSISTANCE

(i) For aids /appliances costing up to Rs. 15,000: Full financial assistance under the scheme.

(ii) For aids /appliances costing between Rs. 15,001/- to Rs. 30000/-: Financial assistance up to Rs 15000/-

(iii) Further, all expensive items costing above Rs. 30,001/, except Cochlear Implant and Motorized Tricycle, eligible for assistance under the scheme, subject to income ceiling, would be listed out. The government of India shall bear 50% of the cost of these items thus listed by the Committee and the remainder shall be contributed by either the State Govt. or the NGO or any other agency or by the beneficiary concerned subject to prior approval of the Ministry on case to case basis; limited to 20% of the Budget under the Scheme.
Note: For providing modern assistive devices to all categories of PWDs, the items will be decided by Expert Committees constituted in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

(iv) Cochlear Implant and post-operative therapy and rehabilitation for children with Hearing Impairment with a ceiling of Rs. 7.00 lakh per unit (to be borne by the Government) in case of children with pre-lingual hearing loss between 1 to 5 years of age and Rs.6.00 Lakh in case of children with acquired hearing loss between 5 to 18 years. The financial support will cover the cost of the implant, surgery, therapy, mapping, travel, and pre-implant assessment in both cases.

Ali Yavar Jung National Institute of Speech & Hearing Disabilities (Divyangjan), (AYJNISHD) Mumbai, will be the nodal agency for Cochlear Implant Surgery. Surgery will be done at the hospitals empaneled by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. The Cochlear Implant devices will be procured by Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO), as per the specification recommended by the core committee.

Note: Beneficiaries will be linked with Aadhar numbers. The amount of assistance will be as follows:-
a)    Total Income: Upto Rs. 22,500/- per month; Amount of Assistance: Full cost of aid/appliance 
b)    Total Income: Rs.22,501/- to Rs. 30,000/- per month; Amount of Assistance: 50% of the cost of aid/appliance

Traveling Costs - 
Traveling Costs in terms of rail fare or bus fare would be admissible separately to the PwD and one escort fare, subject to a limit of Rs. 250/- per person, irrespective of the number of visits to the center and for attending the distribution camp for aids & assistive devices. The beneficiary should attend the Rehabilitation Centre nearest to his/her place of residence except in the North-Eastern Region where he may be allowed travel costs for traveling outside the Region till such facilities become available within the North-Eastern Region.

Boarding and Lodging Expenses - 
Boarding and lodging expenses at the rate of Rs.100/- per day for a maximum duration of 15 days would be admissible, only for those patients whose total income is up to Rs.22,500/- per month and the same will be allowed to attendant/escort. Boarding and lodging expenses will be admissible for the following:-
i. To attend the camp for receiving aids and assistive devices.
ii. Persons with Locomotor disability:
a. Corrective/reconstructive surgery
b. Cases requiring stay for fitment of artificial limb/caliper
iii. Person with Hearing disability: Cases requiring stay for earmould fabrication/fitment Implementing agencies will, as far as possible, avail the facilities of boarding and lodging available in the Dharamshalas attached to Hospitals.

Types of Aids/Appliances

The following aids and appliances may be allowed for each type of disability. However, any other item as notified from time to time by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities for the purpose will also be allowed.

PERSONS WITH LOCOMOTOR DISABILITY
a) All prosthetic and orthotic devices, mobility aids, surgical foot wears, MCR chappals, and all types of devices for ADL (activity of daily living) as recommended by an expert committee from time to time.

b) HIGH-END PROSTHESIS:-
High-end Prosthesis (Below Knee, Above Knee, Below elbow, and Above elbow) to Persons with disabilities having 80% and above disability. The extent of the subsidy would be Rs.30,000/-.

c) Motorized tricycles and Motorized wheelchairs for persons with severe locomotor disability, Stroke, Cerebral Palsy, Hemiplegia, and any other person with similar conditions, where either three/four limbs or one-half of the body are severely impaired. Persons with Disabilities 80% and above disability would be eligible for assistance with a Motorized tricycle and a Motorized wheelchair. The extent of the subsidy would be Rs.50,000/-. This will be provided to persons aged 16 years and above, once in five years. Persons with severe disabilities of 16 years and above age having mental impairment shall not be eligible for Motorized tricycles and wheelchairs since it puts them at risk of serious accident/physical harm. Within the maximum subsidy to be provided for the distribution of motorized tricycles, the year's specific limit would be decided by a Committee having representation of DEPWD, ALIMCO and if required, other concerned agencies.

PERSONS WITH VISUAL DISABILITIES INCLUDING DEAF-BLIND AND WITH OTHER DISABILITIES.
a. Accessible Mobile Phone to visually impaired students aged 18 years and above, once in five years, and Laptop, Braille Note Taker and 
Brallier to school-going students with disability (class 10th and above), once in 10 years. However, the extent of financial support under the scheme would be in accordance with the provisions contained in para7.0.
b. Learning equipment. 
c. Communication equipment.
d. Low vision aids.
e. Special mobility aids for persons with visual disabilities with muscular dystrophy or cerebral palsy like adapted walkers.
f. Any suitable aids & assistive devices as recommended by the Expert committee from time to time. 

PERSONS WITH HEARING DISABILITY
a. Various types of hearing aids, including BTE, etc.
b. Educational kits.
c. Assistive and Alarm devices.
d. Any suitable aids & assistive devices as recommended by Expert Committee from time to time. 

Persons With Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities
a. Teaching and Learning Material (TLM) Kits.
b. Multi Sensory Inclusive Education Development (MSIED) Kit.
c. Any suitable device/kit/learning material as advised by Expert Committee from time to time.

MULTIPLE DISABILITY
Any suitable device as advised by Expert Committee from time to time. 

LEPROSY CURED PERSONS
i. Assistive Daily Living Kits (ADL) for Leprosy cured persons.
ii. Any suitable device as advised by Expert Committee from time to time.

NEW DISABILITIES ADDED IN THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES RPWD ACT, 2016
Any suitable aids and assistive devices as may be specified by Expert Committee from time to time for new disabilities added in the PWD Act, 2016.

Periodic revision of aids/appliances
The list of assistive devices may be revised periodically by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), without seeking the approval of the Expenditure Finance Committee/Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, within the financial ceiling prescribed by the Expert committee constituted in the Department. Department may also issue further guidelines in pursuance of the aims & objectives of the Scheme.
Eligibility
ELIGIBILITY OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES

The following agencies are eligible to implement the Scheme on behalf of the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) under the aegis of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, subject to fulfillment of the following terms and conditions:

Societies and their branches, if any, were registered separately under the Societies Registration Act, of 1860.
Registered Charitable Trusts.
Indian Red Cross Societies and other Autonomous Bodies headed by District Collector/Chief Executive Officer/District Development Officer.
National/Apex Institutes, CRCs, RCs, DDRCs, National Trust, ALIMCO, functioning under the administrative control of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment/Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
National/State Handicapped Development Corporations.
Local Bodies – Zilla Parishad, Municipalities, District Autonomous Development Councils and Panchayats, etc.
Hospitals registered as separate entities, as recommended by State/UT/Central Govt.
Nehru Yuva Kendras.
Any other organization as deemed fit by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India.

NOTE: Grant-in-aid under the Scheme will not be given for commercial production or supply of aids/appliances.

While approving new implementing agencies, preference would be given to those Agencies:
(i)   Which employ professional/technical expertise, in the form of professionally qualified staff (from RCI recognized courses) for identification, prescription of the required aids/appliances, fitment and post-fitment care of beneficiaries as well as aids/appliances.
(ii)   Possess infrastructure in the form of machinery/equipment for fabrication, fitment, and maintenance of aids/appliances to be given to a person with a disability under the ADIP Scheme and which have the capacity to produce aids and assistive devices with ISI standards/ISO certification.

ELIGIBILITY OF THE BENEFICIARIES
An Indian citizen of any age.
Holding a 40% Disability Certificate (Benchmark disability).
Having monthly income from all sources not exceeding Rs.30,000/- per month.
In the case of dependents, the income of parents/guardians not exceeding Rs. 30,000/- per month.
Not having received assistance during the last 3 years for the same purpose from any source. However, for children below 12 years of age, the minimum time of assistance is one year.

Identification of Beneficiaries

i. Through Camp Activity:
Implementing agencies will carry out assessments of beneficiaries in camp mode at district levels.

ii. Through Headquarter Activity:
The National  Institutes/CRCs/ALIMCO/ DDRCs and other implementing agencies will utilize the grants to extend services to eligible beneficiaries who approach their headquarters or their respective Regional Centres.

iii. Through Common Service Centres (CSCs):
The Department will enter into an MOU with the CSCs functioning all over the country at Block, Taluka, and Gram Panchayat levels for registration of beneficiaries who need aids and assistive devices under the ADIP Scheme.

iv. Through Mobile App:
In order to facilitate the beneficiaries in getting aids and assistive devices, a Mobile app will be launched by the Department which will enable beneficiaries to either place requests for new assistive devices(new registrations) or repair existing devices (existing users). The requests so received on the app will be compiled in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.

v. Through Management Information System (MIS)/ADIP Web Portal: 
The portal will facilitate PwDs for an online request for providing aids & assistive devices to the eligible beneficiaries within 6 months from the date of such registration on the Portal.
Application Process
Offline
Online - Via CSCs
Online
Through Camp Activity:
Implementing agencies will carry out assessments of beneficiaries in camp mode at district levels, followed by distribution camps. Implementing Agencies need to focus on coverage of inaccessible and unserved areas. Camps will also be organized from time to time as per emerging requirements.

Through Headquarter Activity:
The National Institutes/CRCs/ALIMCO/ DDRCs and other implementing agencies will utilize the grants to extend services to eligible beneficiaries who approach their headquarters or their respective Regional Centres. Some well-established NGOs having Centres/Sub-centres that carry out OPD activities and undertake corrective surgical operations for persons with disabilities may also be considered for grants-in-aid for their headquarter activities.
Apply Now
Documents Required
Documents Required by the Beneficiary - 

1. Passport Size Photographs. 
2. A copy of the disability certificate. 
3. Address proof (copy of Aadhaar Card or/ Voter Id Card or/ Ration Card etc.) 
4. A copy of the Income Certificate. 
5. An undertaking that he/she has not received the same aids & assistive devices from any source during the last three years.
6. Aadhaar Card

Documents Required by the Implementing Agency - 

a. A copy of Registration Certificate u/s 51/52 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
b. A copy of the Registration Certificate under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, and their branches, if any, separately or Charitable Trust Act.
c. Names and details of the Members of the Management Committee of the Organization (Annexure-III)
d. A copy of the Rules, Aims, and Objectives of the Organization. 
e. A copy of Certified Audited Accounts and Annual Report for the previous year (showing that the organization is financially sound). In the case of organizations seeking first-time grants-in-aid under the scheme, Audited Accounts, and Annual Reports for the last three years will be required.
f. The Implementing Agencies already receiving grant-in-aid under the Scheme should upload the list of beneficiaries and other details on the Management Information System (MIS)/ADIP Web Portal. The implementing agencies will also provide the list of beneficiaries assisted through the grant-in-aid under the scheme (as per proforma given in Annexure-IV) to the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) on demand. 
g. Implementing agency should also maintain a website and upload details of grants received, and utilized and list of beneficiaries as per proforma given in Annexure-IV
h. Utilization Certificate as per Annexure-V.
i. The Implementing Agencies shall provide one year free of cost maintenance of the aids & assistive devices supplied by them. 
j. The organization will provide reservations to SC/ST/OBC and persons with disabilities in accordance with instructions issued by Govt. of India from time to time if its employees are more than 20 persons on a regular basis.
k. PAN and Aadhaar Number details of the Trustees/members of the NGO/VO.
