Grant for Incubation Centers within Educational Institutes Scheme
Goa
EntrepreneurshipGrantIncubationInstitutionStartup
Details
The scheme “Grant for Incubation Centers within Educational Institutes Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. Through this scheme, the educational institutes in Goa, affiliated with a recognized public university, can avail of a one-time grant towards capital expenses for setting up an incubator within their institute campuses.

Benefits
All educational institutes in Goa, affiliated with a recognized public university, can avail of a one-time grant of up to ₹ 10,00,000 towards capital expenses, for setting up of an incubator within their institute campuses. 
The educational institutes with existing incubation facilities can also avail of the grant for capital expenses for further expansion of incubation facilities. 
The maximum number of institutes to avail of this benefit cannot exceed 15 per year. 
The educational institutes with existing incubation facilities will also be provided with a grant of up to ₹ 3,00,000 per year, for a period of three years, towards operational expenses.

Relaxation / Preference / Priority
The preference will be given to well-performing applicants.

NOTE 1: The institutes claiming the benefits under this scheme cannot restrict the incubation facilities only to the students of their institute.
NOTE 2: Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement. The SPC shall reserve the sole right to accept or reject applications.
NOTE 3: For the purpose of determining eligible expenses towards capital expenses, Accounting Standard 102 for Fixed Assets by the Institute of Cost Accountants of India would be used.
Eligibility
All the educational institutes in Goa, affiliated with a recognized public university are eligible to apply for this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ & + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.

OR 

Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form. Fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to SPC via Email at spc-dit.goa@gov.in

NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme at any time of the financial year but only within 6 months of incurring the relevant expenditure.

Notification
The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC.
Documents Required
1. Copy of plan expenditure of proposed expenses*.
2. The form and documents as mentioned in Annexure 1 for Educational Institutes.
NOTE: The bank account of the Principal/ Director of the institute should be linked to Aadhaar.
