Safai Karmakar Bahay Rogi Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceHealthWellness
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakar Bahay Rogi Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on  11 March 2015. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing required financial assistance for medical situation.

Benefits
Medical assistance up to Rs. 2,000/- in a year.
Eligibility
Safai Worker must be registered Unorganized worker of State Social Security Board.
Safai worker must be between 18 to 60 years.
Family members details must be mentioned in the registration card. 
Benefits will be provided only safai worker and their family members (husband, wife, son and daughter) mentioned in the registration card.
The benefit of the scheme will be available only up to two children.
If the benefit of the scheme is being received from any other parallel scheme of the State Government, then the benefit of this scheme will not be available.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Copy of ration card.
