YSR Kapu Nestham
Andhra Pradesh
Backward ClassesCitizen EmpowermentFinancial Asisstance
Details
The scheme "YSR Kapu Nestham" is a Social Empowerment Scheme by the Backward Classes Welfare(C) Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to financially empower Kapu, Balija, Telaga, Ontari women between the age of 45-60 years by enhancing their livelihood opportunities and living standards with the financial assistance of a total amount of ₹ 75,000/- over the period of 5 years i.e., ₹ 15,000/- per annum. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of a total amount of ₹ 75,000/- over the period of 5 years i.e., ₹ 15,000/- per annum.
Eligibility
1. Citizenship: The applicant should be a permanent resident of Andhra Pradesh.
2. Total Family Income: Total family Income of the applicant should be less than Rs.10,000/- per month in Rural areas and Rs.12,000/- per month in Urban areas.
3. Total family Land Holding: Total land holding of the family of the applicant should be less than 3.00 Acres of Wet Land OR 10 Acres of Dry Land OR 10 Acres of Land put together for this purpose.
4. Government Employee/Pensioner: No family member of the applicant should be a government employee or Government pensioner. The families of Sanitary workers are exempted.
5. Four-Wheeler: The family of the applicant should not own a four-wheeler (Taxis, Tractors, and Autos are exempted).
6. Electricity Consumption: Monthly electricity consumption of the family dwelling unit (own/rent) of the applicant should be less than 300 units.
7. Income Tax: No family member of the applicant should be an income tax payee.
8. Municipal Property: Less than 750 sq. feet of built-up area (Residential or commercial).
9. Age & Gender: The applicant should be between 45 – 60 Years. The applicant should be a Female.
11. Category: The applicant must belong to the Kapu Community (Kapu, Balija, Telaga, or Ontari).
Application Process
Online
Step 1: On Citizen Schemes Portal landing page, the citizen can log in using the Aadhaar-tagged mobile OTP Authentication. In the “Citizen Scheme Application” page, citizens can select “YSR Kapu Nestham” from the schemes dropdown and click on “Submit”. 

Step 2: Applications submitted are forwarded to Welfare and Education Assistant (WEA) /Ward Welfare and Development Secretary (WWDS). 

Step 3: The Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS conducts the field verification for each application, takes eKYC, makes a relevant recommendation, and forwards it to Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) / Municipal Commissioner (MC). 

Step 4: The MPDO/MC reviews the application and makes relevant recommendations and forwards the application to the Executive Directors of the Backward Classes Welfare Department (ED BC). 

Step 5: The Executive Director of the Backward Classes Corporations (ED BCs) verifies the application and makes relevant recommendations. 

Step 6: Based on recommendations made by the ED BCs and the applicants’ eligibility as mentioned in the Scheme Eligibility Calculator, the Social Audit lists namely the Provisional eligible list and Reverification list (with reasons for ineligibility) are published in all secretariats. 

Step 7: The citizens in the Reverification list can raise a grievance if they think that the reason mentioned for ineligibility is incorrect. 

Step 8: The final list of Eligible and Ineligible Beneficiaries is published in all secretariats. 

Step 9: The citizens mentioned in the Final Ineligible list can raise a grievance in Citizen Schemes Portal if he/she thinks that the reason for rejection is incorrect. 

Step 10: The scheme benefit is disbursed to all eligible beneficiaries through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). The acknowledgment of receipt of the payment by the beneficiary is done by the Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS using eKYC (Biometric Authentication).

Step 11: The beneficiaries can track the status of their payment on the Citizen Schemes Portal landing page by clicking on “Track Application Status”.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account.
Integrated Caste Certificate ((which includes Caste, Date of Birth & Nativity).
Date of Birth Proof: Birth Certificate OR SSC Marks Sheet OR Voter ID Card OR Pension Card issued by Govt of Andhra Pradesh.
