Bank Guarantee Charges Reimbursement Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
BusinessEnterpreneurshipFinancial AssistanceReimbursement
Details
Under the the Ministry Of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Bank Guarantee Charges Reimbursement Scheme is a sub scheme under National Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Hub (NSSH) scheme. In this reimbursement is provided to SC/ST MSEs on bank charges paid to the bank for issuance of Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG) in favor of the buyer departments from where some work has been awarded to such MSEs.

Benefits
The assistance under this scheme will be limited to 80% or ₹ 1,00,000/- (excluding GST and all other applicable taxes), whichever is less, on PBG charges paid in a financial year.
Eligibility
Applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe category.
He/she should represent/own any MSEs unit.
MSEs availing loans from any Scheduled Commercial Banks, Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs), and State Finance Corporations will be considered under the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Applicant need to visit the official website https://www.scsthub.in.
For registration click on sign-up and provide the following details 
Full Name
Valid Email ID
Mobile Number
Password and confirm password
For login click on login.
After login complete the required information. 
Documents Required
Self-certified copy of Udyam Registration (UR) & GST (if applicable).
Self-certified copy of PAN Card in case of proprietorship, PAN card of SC/ST proprietor ought to be submitted.
Copy of Caste Certificate of proprietor/ all partners/ directors.
Details of shareholding in case of partnership / Pvt. Ltd / LLP firm. In case of partnership concerns, shareholding of the enterprise would be required to ascertain status of the MSE as SC/ST MSE (shareholding of SC/ST entrepreneur to be > 51%). Copy of Partnership Deed for Partnership Firm / Memorandum and Article of Association in case of LLP/Private Limited Company are required.
Bank attested (signature with stamp) debit statement with Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG )charges mentioning Bank Guarantee number and applicant MSE's name.
Bank attested and stamped(signature with stamp) copy of Performance Bank Guarantee (PBG ) issued by the bank.
Cancelled Cheque of the current account of the enterprise from which Bank Charges have been debited.
Proof of transferred amount as reimbursement by NSSHO/ NSIC through PFMS under the scheme, where any such assistance is availed earlier with in the same financial year.
Supply Order / Purchase Order/ Work Order from CPSE / Central Govt. organization / Department / State PSE, State Govt. organization / State Department against which PBG is taken and reimbursement is applied for, stating the requirement ofn PBG submission.
