Sikkim Unmarried Women Pension Scheme
Sikkim
Below Poverty LineDirect Benefit TransferPensionUnmarried Women
Details
The Govt. of Sikkim launched a scheme named “Sikkim Unmarried Women Pension Scheme (SUWPS)” in 2013 for unmarried women of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families in Sikkim. Under this scheme, the unmarried women of BPL families in the age group 45-59 years without any source of income are eligible for payment of ₹ 2,000 as a monthly pension. This scheme is 100% State Innovative Scheme and the unmarried woman should not have been covered by any other existing pension schemes of the State or Central government. 

Benefits
A monthly pension of ₹ 2,000/- per beneficiary.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the state of Sikkim.
The applicant should be a woman.
The applicant should be unmarried.
The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The applicant should be in the 45-59 years age group.
The applicant should not have any source of income.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: The applicant has to approach their concerned Gram Panchayat /Municipality / Municipal Corporation office. Consult with the designated authority about the applying procedure and the local department office for this scheme. Collect the application form.

Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents and submit it to the designated receiving authority.
Documents Required
Recent passport size photographs – 3 Number
Attested photocopy of Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification as the case may be i.e. Income certificate, Caste certificate.
Attested photocopy of the Below Poverty Line Certificate.
Birth Certificate or Electoral photo Identity Card or any other valid document having recorded the date as proof of age.
Attested copy of Aadhar Card.
Unmarried Certificate/ Non-Marriage Certificate issued by the Gram Vikash Adhikari / Sub-Divisional Magistrate.
Attested photocopy of first page of the Bank/Post Office Passbook along with the photocopy of latest updated account.
