Sardar Patel Awas Yojana
Gujarat
Awas YojanaGujaratHousingSardar Patel
Details
Detailed
Under the Sardar Patel Awas Yojana, the government provides financial assistance to eligible beneficiaries for the construction of their own house. The scheme is implemented by Gujarat Housing Board (GHB) and Gujarat Urban Development Mission (GUDM) in urban areas, and by Gujarat Rural Housing Corporation (GRHC) in rural areas.
Sardar Patel Awas Yojana is a housing scheme launched by the government of Gujarat in India to provide affordable housing to economically weaker sections and low-income groups of the society. The scheme provides financial assistance to eligible beneficiaries for the construction of their own house, and is implemented by Gujarat Housing Board and Gujarat Urban Development Mission in urban areas, and by Gujarat Rural Housing Corporation in rural areas. The scheme aims to improve the living standards of the underprivileged sections of society by providing them with their own homes.

Benefits
Benefits
Affordable Housing: SPAY provides financial assistance to the economically weaker sections and low-income groups of the society to construct their own homes, thus making housing affordable for them.
Better Living Standards: By providing a pucca house to the beneficiaries, SPAY aims to improve their living standards and ensure that they have access to basic amenities like electricity, water, and sanitation.
Empowerment: Owning a house provides a sense of security and empowerment to the beneficiaries. It gives them a permanent address and a feeling of ownership.
Subsidy: The financial assistance provided by the government in the form of a subsidy reduces the burden of the beneficiaries, making it easier for them to construct their own house.
Employment Generation: The construction of houses under SPAY generates employment opportunities for local laborers, thus contributing to the local economy.
Economic Growth: The construction of houses under SPAY also contributes to the overall economic growth of the country by creating demand for building materials and services.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
This scheme of the State Govt. being poor-oriented the persons registered Below the Poverty Line in rural areas may avail the benefit of the scheme.
A person who has no plot or house may avail the benefit of the scheme.
The applicant should not have taken benefit of any other housing scheme.
The applicant who has a maximum of half a hectare of irrigated land or a maximum of one hectare of unrelated land may also avail advantage of the scheme.
If husband and wife live together and if there is a plot or house in the name of the husband or wife and living in the same village for the last five years, either of them may avail the benefit of the scheme.
If a beneficiary is a native of the village he should hold a card Below the Poverty Line of that village such person should obtain a certificate from the Sarpanch of his native village that “this beneficiary has not taken advantage of Sardar Patel Awas Yojana in our village. A certificate should be produced that there is no house in his name or in the name of his wife in his native place and they should fall in the definition of B.P.L.
Benefit under Sardar Patel Awas Yojana is available to the villager living Below Poverty Line only once.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
Download the application from the official website or click here. 
Fill out the application form with the required details. 
Include all the required documents.
Applicant should apply to Nearest Taluka Vistar Adhikari/Taluka Panchayat/Jila Panchayat with the application form. 
Documents Required
List of required documents
Proof of registration as below the poverty line in a rural area
Identity proof such as Aadhaar Card, Voter ID, etc.
Address proof such as ration card, electricity bill, etc.
Land documents to prove that the applicant does not own a house or plot
Certificate from the Sarpanch of the native village stating that the applicant has not previously taken advantage of the Sardar Patel Awas Yojana and meets the B.P.L criteria
Income certificates or proof of income such as salary slips, bank statements, etc.
Any other documents that may be required by the authorities for the application process
