Shagun Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
Financial AssistanceMarriageRe-MarriageWidow Marriage
Details
About 
The Main purpose of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the parent/guardians or the girl herself if her parents are not alive/traceable for the marriage of their girl who belongs to the BPL family, above 18 years of age, and bonafide resident of Himachal Pradesh. The Marriage grant will be given even if the girl, from Himachal Pradesh, is marrying a boy from outside the state of Himachal Pradesh. 

Drawing and Disbursement of grant
The grant will be drawn and disbursed by the district programme officer to the Child Development Project Officer of the concerned Project who shall further disburse it to the beneficiaries. The Amount may be paid two months in advance of the proposed date of marriage. If the marriage has already taken place, the grant shall be disbursed even after the applicant applies for the grant of marriage, within a period of six months. In case the applicant applies after a period of six months from the date of marriage, the application shall not be considered and no benefit shall be given. The Child development project Officer will maintain a separate record for the scheme and an audit of accounts of expenditure shall be conducted like other schemes under the child development project Officer. The money will be transferred into the bank account of the concerned applicant. 

Verification
Child Development Project Officer/Incharge of State Home/ Nari Sewa Sadan/ Superintendent Balika Ashram concerned shall verify that particulars mentioned by the applicant in the application form are correct and that he/she has not benefited under Mukhaya Mantri Kanyadan Yojna or any other similar departmental scheme for marriage grant. The concerned officer/official shall also verify that the marriage has actually taken place and the amount has been properly utilized for the purpose for which it has been sanctioned. 

Terms and Conditions
The parents/guardians of the girls/women or the girl herself. In case her parents are not alive / traceable shall have to supply the following documents along with their application. 
Certificate of the bonafide resident of Himachal Pradesh of the applicant/girl.
BPL certificate of parents/ guardian or the proposed bride herself in case her parents are not alive /traceable certified by the competent authority.
Proof of date of birth of the girl issued by the competent authority.
Proposed date of marriage of girl duly certified by Pradhan Gram Panchayats/ Councilors of Urban Local Bodies and In-charge of’ Nari Sewa Sadan/Superintendent. Balika Ashrams is concerned. 
In case the marriage has already been performed, a certificate from the concerned Marriage Registrar i.e Secretary, Gram Panchayat/Executive Officer, Nagar Panchayat/ Nagar Parishad/Municipal Corporation as declared under H.P. Marriage Registration Act, 1996.
If the Parents of the girl are not alive then the death certificate/non-traceable/ missing certificate issued by the Gram Panchayat/ M.C. may be submitted.
Name and address of the boy with whom marriage is proposed, certified by Gram Panchayat/ MC.
Proof of date of birth of boy issued by the competent authority (The boy should not be less than 21 years of age).
The applicant will be eligible to apply only in one of the two marriage grant scheme of the department i.e. either Mukhyamantri Kanyadan Yojna or Shagun Yojna subject to eligibility criteria and shall submit a declaration to this effect.
If the amount of grant is not utilized by parents/ guardian/ the girl herself for the purpose for which it was sanctioned within a period of three months from the date of disbursement, it shall be refunded back to the Child Development Project Officer concerned immediately.

Benefits
The marriage grant of Rs. 31000/- ( Thirty thousand only) in each case shall be admissible to the parents/guardian of the girls/women for their marriage. 

The State Government shall be competent to increase the amount from time to time keeping in view the cost of living. 
Eligibility
Eligibility 
Applicants must be permanent residents of the Himachal Pradesh state.
The age of the bride must be 18 years or above and the age of the groom must be above 21 years.
The applicant girl’s name must be registered at the e-district.hp.gov portal.
The family of the applicant girl must belong to either SC, ST, or OBC category.
Those destitute left out women who are not financially able to perform their re-marriage can also apply.
Even widow women who want to get remarried would be included in this HP Shagun Yojana.
Application Process
Online
Applicants have to go to the official website of the e-district Himachal Pradesh.
On the home page, click on the option of Citizen Login and New Registration.
On the new page, applicants will have to enter the required details and upload photo identity proof with a profile image.
Now applicants log in again by clicking on the option of Citizen Login.
Applicants have to enter their Udar ID password and select the user type.
Now applicants have to click on the option of Himachal Pradesh Vivah Shagun Yojana Apply here. 
Now the application form will open on the screen.
Applicants have to enter all the important information asked in this application form.
Upload all the important documents and submit
Documents Required
List of Documents Required for HP Shagun Yojna
Birth certificate of girl & boy.
Himachali Bonafide certificate of girl issued by a competent revenue officer.
BPL Certificate of parents /guardians of the girl issued by the competent authority.
Copy of the bank account passbook of the applicant.
Certificate of proposed date of marriage issued by Gram Panchayats/MC/ Nagar Panchayat.
In case. il marriage has already taken place. certificate issued by the marriage registrar.
In case of death ‘missing of parents. certificate issued by the Gram Panchayat/M.C.
