Higher Education And Skill Development Guarantee Scheme
Delhi
Financial AssistanceGuarantee SchemeHigher Education AndSkill Development
Details
Detailed 
The  Higher  Education and  Skill  Development Guarantee  Scheme  outlined  below aims at providing financial support from the banking system to meritorious students for  pursuing  higher  education  in  Delhi and pursuing recognized degree or diploma level courses or skill development courses from Central /State Govt. Universities /Institutions located outside Delhi, (within India).  The  main  emphasis  is  that  a  meritorious student is provided with an opportunity to pursue higher education with the financial support from the banking system with reasonable and affordable terms and conditions. bank loans upto Rs.10 lakhs taken by the students will be provided guarantee through a Higher Education and Skill Development Credit Guarantee Fund created by the Government for providing guarantee to the banks in case of default. Students will not be required to furnish any collateral or margin money and the scheme will be universal in nature regardless of the student’s background.

Benefits
Benefits
The maximum amount of education loan guaranteed under this scheme is up to Rs. 10 Lakhs Only.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
Students who wish to pursue a diploma or degree or specified skill development courses in Delhi and have done their Class-X and Class–XII from Delhi are eligible under this Scheme. For courses for which the qualifying examination is Class-X, students who have done Class-X in Delhi would be eligible under this Scheme. Students who are children of employees of Govt. of NCT of Delhi or Officials/government servants who are posted with the Govt..of NCT of Delhi are also eligible under this scheme.
The student should have secured admission to a higher education course or specified Skill development courses (diploma or degree including bachelor, Master and Doctoral Degrees) in recognized institutions in Delhi through the Entrance Test/ Merit Based Selection process after completion of the Secondary Examination/Senior Secondary Examination/required qualifying examination.
The guarantee would be available for loans for all recognized diploma/degree courses from Government Institutions /Universities and constituent colleges of the University of Delhi. It would also be available for Private/ Self-financed Institutions located in Delhi having NAAC/NBA/SFRC grading. The department will persuade all the Private Institutions to get accreditation from NAAC/NBA. Till such time, grading as given by the Third State Fee Regulatory Committee (SFRC) set up by the Directorate of Higher Education and Directorate of Training & Technical Education may be used for Private Institutions, since this grading is based on the infrastructure, faculty and academic standards of the institutions as also the costs being incurred by it.
It would also be available for Institutions of Technical/Training Skill Development such as courses by World Class Skill Centre or any other technical training/skill development institutions specified by the Government of NCT of Delhi.

Courses Eligible for Studies in Delhi
Approved courses leading to graduate/ post-graduate degrees and PG diplomas conducted by recognized colleges/ universities recognized by UGC/ Government/ AICTE/ AIBMS/ ICMR etc
Courses like ICWA, CA, CFA etc 
Courses conducted by IIT, NIFT, NLU, IIFT etc 
Regular Degree/Diploma courses like aeronautical, pilot training, shipping, including those run by Polytechnics etc., degree/diploma in nursing, physiotherapy or any other discipline approved by the Director General of Civil Aviation/Shipping/Indian Nursing Council or any other regulatory body as the case may be if the course is pursued in Delhi. 
Skill Development Courses as may be specified by Govt. of NCT of Delhi.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Students need to visit the official site.
At bottom of the page, click on Apply now or access the official site of edistrict. 
Students have to register himself/herself at the same site.
Only online applications will be accepted and hard copy of the application filled online along with uploaded documents is required to be submitted to the concerned Bank/Branch.
The list of approved member banks of Delhi is available on website of the student loan.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Aadhaar Card (Student)
Pan Card (Student)
10th certificate (Passed from Delhi), For courses for which the qualifying examination is class X.
12th certificate (Passed from Delhi), For courses for which the qualifying examination is class XII.
Employer’s Certificate (Students who are children of employees of Govt. of NCT of Delhi or Officials/government servants who are posted with the Govt. of NCT of Delhi are also eligible under this scheme.) Declaration (With Photo & Signature with Date) 
Photograph.
Certificate
Only the Central /State Govt. Universities /Institutions located outside Delhi, and within India, are covered under this scheme.
Certificate: is mandatory at the time of application/sanction of education loan only for the meritorious students for pursuing a recognized degree or diploma level courses or skill development courses from Central /State Govt. Universities /Institutions located outside Delhi, within India.
Note 
PAN No: is not mandatory at the time of application/sanction of education loan however, students shall have to furnish details of PAN before releasing the second instalment.
