Safai Karmakar Prasuti Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceHeathMaternity Assistance
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakar Prasuti Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on  11 March 2015. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing financial assistance for Maternity Assistance. 

Benefits
Female employees will receive a financial assistance of ₹4,200 in the third month of pregnancy and ₹2,800 in the eighth month of pregnancy as maternity benefit.
Male employees will receive a financial assistance of ₹3,000 as paternity leave after the birth of the child.
Eligibility
Applicant(Male or Female) must be registered worker.
Benefits will be provided only for two children.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Copy of ration card.
