KSCSTE Research Fellowship
Kerala
FellowFellowshipJRFPost-graduateResearchSRFStipend
Details
The scheme “KSCSTE Research Fellowship” is for encouraging enthusiastic and passionate post-graduate science/ engineering students by supporting them financially in their Ph.D. studies. There are seven science streams in which the students can opt for fellowship. They are Mathematical Sciences, Life Sciences, Chemical Sciences, Physical Sciences, Engineering Sciences, Environmental Sciences, and Earth-Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences.
Under the scheme, the fellows are selected based on a rigorous online examination among bright post-graduate students. The following is the pattern of examination:
There are two papers for the entrance examination:
Paper A is general which evaluates the candidate’s general knowledge and research aptitude.
Paper B is the subject paper. The syllabus for paper B is similar to that of the CSIR examination and this will be available on the KSCSTE website.
Pattern of Examination Part A (General Aptitude) Part B (Subject)
Total Questions 20 100
Max no. of questions to attempt 20 50
There is no negative mark.
The total marks will be calculated as follows:
Out of 90 total marks, 70 marks are from the online examination and 20 marks from the Post-graduation degree marks.
The cut-off marks for selection to the fellowship are based on the number of fellowships available for each stream. For reservation candidates (SC/ST, persons with disabilities), there will be a 5% reduction in cut-off marks from that of the general (UR) / General-EWS and OBC candidates.
The maximum number of fellowships in each subject is given below:
Subject No. of Fellowships
Life Sciences 28
Chemical Sciences 16
Mathematical Sciences 10
Physical Sciences  16
Earth, Atmospheric, Ocean, and Planetary Sciences 10
Environmental Sciences  10
Engineering Sciences 10
Total 100
The number of fellowships may vary based on the availability of funds.
The selected candidates will be intimated by e-mail and post. A fellowship offer letter will be sent to the candidate.
Candidates are allowed for online examination provisionally. Any mismatch found in their submitted documents and or if the applicant is found to violate the KSCSTE Research Fellowship guidelines, the fellowship will be cancelled and the candidate will be debarred in future examinations.
Necessary conditions as per Scheme:
The fellowship is for pursuing Ph.D. and the candidate should register in any of the Universities in Kerala to avail of the fellowship.
The fellowship awardees should join and pursue their Ph.D. studies in any of the Universities/research centers in Kerala as soon as the fellowship offer letter is received.
Once the offer letter from the Council is received, the fellow should submit an acceptance letter within the time mentioned in the offer letter, else the fellowship will be cancelled.
The fellowship offer shall be valid for one year from the date of issuing of the offer letter.
As soon as the offer letter is received, the fellow should start initiating the registration process with the University in Kerala.
Once the registration order from the University is received, a copy of the same along with the Terms and Conditions, a letter from the supervising teacher showing that the fellow is not availing of any other fellowship, and a joining report (mentioning the effective date of joining at the Research Centre) should be sent to the Council for initiating the release of the fellowship.
If the fellow would like to terminate the KSCSTE fellowship, the same should be intimated to the Council through the Head of the Institution and forwarded by the supervising teacher, immediately. The fellow should take steps to ensure the submission of SE and UC and refund of unspent amount etc. by the Institute for issuing NOC.

Benefits
The Fellowship carries a monthly stipend of ₹31,000/- for the first two years (JRF) and ₹35,000/- per month in the third year (SRF).
There is an annual contingency grant of ₹20,000/-.
All Research Fellows shall be allowed hostel accommodation wherever available and those residing in a hostel provided by the University/Institute shall not be eligible for HRA. Reimbursement of hostel fee shall not be permissible, where the hostel facility is not possible. House Rent Allowance shall be allowed a maximum of 10% of their fellowship.
The fellowship is for a period not exceeding three years.
Eligibility
Candidates, who have qualified for the post-graduate degree, shall have three consecutive chances to apply for the Fellowship programme. Thus, a candidate who has passed the examination in the current year can apply in this year, the next year, and the year after next.
The candidates (General and OBC candidates) should have a minimum of 70% marks or equivalent CGPA in their PG examination and 65% for SC/ST and differently-abled candidates.
Only candidates who have their qualifying degree (PG) from any of the Universities in Kerala are eligible to apply.
Upper age limit: Maximum 35 years (Should not exceed 35 years as of the 1st of the month of the advertisement published on the website) for all applicants.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: Generally, applications are invited during September - October every year.
Step 02: Applications are invited through online mode and applicants need to visit the Official Website of KSCSTE.
Note 01: There is a non-refundable registration fee of ₹750/- for general candidates and SC/ST/Persons with disability candidates are exempted.
Note 02: No hard copies of the application form will be accepted.
Note 03: Candidates who have registered for the fellowship have to appear for an examination which is conducted online at three centers across Kerala.
Contact Details:
The Head, Basic Science Division, Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE), Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram - 695 004,
Tel: +91 471 2548360/314
E-mail: bsd.kscste@kerala.gov.in
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Passport size photographs
3. PG Marks sheet & Degree certificate
4. Proof of age
5. Caste certificate for SC/ST candidates
6. Medical certificate for persons with disability
7. Any other document, as required
