Delhi Arogya Kosh
Delhi
Arogya KoshDelhiFamily HealthFinancial Assistance
Details
Details
The Governing Body of Delhi Arogya Kosh in its 13th meeting held on 28.02.2017 resolved that financial assistance shall be provided for Ultrasound, Doppler Studies, Mammography, EEG, EMG, TMT & ECHO from both non-NABH & NABH ACCREDITED DGEHS EMPANELLED STANDALONE DIAGNOSTIC centres to any eligible patient who is a bonafide resident of Delhi, identified on the basis of Voter ID card; Aadhaar Card; Passport; Driving License; Ration Card; Extract from the electoral roll and Birth Certificate along with identity proof of either parent (for children below five years of age), undergoing treatment in any of the 25 Hospitals owned by Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) or in any of the 23 polyclinics attached to these hospitals or in any of the 05 hospitals run under autonomous mode by GNCTD

Benefits
Benefits
Provides financial assistance of Rs. 5 lacs to needy eligible patients for treatment of any illness /disease in a Government hospital run by Delhi  Government or  Central Government or Local Bodies or  Autonomous Hospitals under State Government 
Eligibility
Eligibility 
Patients with annual family income up to Rs 3 lacs are eligible.
The patient should be a bonafide resident of Delhi for the last 3 years ( prior to the date of submission of the application).
The patient requiring treatment for any illness/ treatment/ intervention in a Government Hospital run by Delhi Govt. /Central Govt. /AIIMS /Autonomous Institutes of the State Govt. /Local Bodies.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Download the application form.
Check the List Of Dak Empanelled Hospitals For Free Surgery Scheme.
A Complete application form along with all the requisite documents is processed by the concerned hospital and sent to the Director of General Health Services through e-office for his approval. 
Thereafter, the application needs approval from the Finance Department, GNCTD and is thence forwarded to Chairman, DAK for their approval, respectively.  
Financial Assistance up to Rs. 25,000/- is sanctioned at the level of Directorate General Of Health Services (DGHS), up to Rs. 1.5 lakh is sanctioned at the level of DGHS after approval of the finance department. 
Financial Assistance above Rs. 1.5 lakh upto Rs. 5 lakhs is sanctioned at the level of Chairman, DAK
After the due approvals from the competent authority on rotation, the application comes back to Patient Welfare Cell and the sanctioned amount is issued in favour of the concerned Government Hospital through the ECS facility.
The concerned hospital is informed regarding the patient and the sanctioned amount for further necessary action at the level of the hospital.
The applicant, too, is informed through a letter sent by Speed-post and, if a contact number is available, telephonically
Documents Required
Requisite documents for verification of INCOME (any one of the following):
National Food Security Card for income less than Rs. 1 lakh per annum.
Income Certificate issued from area SDM (or any other officer authorized on this behalf by the Revenue Department) for income up to Rs. 3 lakhs per annum. 

Requisite document for verification of DOMICILE for the last 03 years (any one of the following):
Domicile Certificate issued from area SDM.
Ration card.
EPIC (Voter ID).
Driving License.
Passport.
Extract from the Electoral Roll.
Aadhar Card.

Note:  In case the patient is a minor, Birth Certificate of the patient and the domicile proof of either of the parent (any one of the aforementioned documents).
