Post Graduate Merit Scholarship Scheme For University Rank Holders At Under-Graduate Level Applicable
Ministry of Education
Scholarship
Details
University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education (DoHE) introduced a Post-Graduate Merit Scholarship Scheme for University rank holders both in General and Honours Courses at the Undergraduate level. The scholarship may be tenable for a period of two years to enable the rank holders of each university at the undergraduate level to pursue their Master’s Degree. 

All universities/degree awarding institutions would be required to issue rank certificates to the toppers of the university (not at the college level) both in General and Honours Courses namely B.A., B.Sc., and B.Com. The purpose of this scheme is to attract talent for pursuing postgraduate studies besides strengthening the basic subjects – General as well as Honours, at the Undergraduate level. 

The awardees, under this scheme, can pursue their Postgraduate program in any area of specialization in any institution of higher learning in the country. 

OBJECTIVES
a) to promote and nurture talent.
b) to reward meritorious students with outstanding performance at the Undergraduate level for pursuing postgraduate studies.
c) to Promote study in basic subjects both General as well as Honours at the undergraduate level. Professional courses are not covered under the scheme.
d) to build up academic excellence at the postgraduate level across the colleges and universities in the country.

Benefits
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE SCHEME 

The financial assistance for the scheme will be provided by the UGC to all the eligible universities/institutions which are under Sections 2(f) and 12(B) of the UGC Act. 

Each awardee, under the scheme, will be provided a scholarship of ₹ 2,000/- p.m. for a period of two years (i.e. 10 months in a year). The second-year grant will be released after receiving the Utilization Certificate and statement of expenditure along with the progress report of the first year. 
No other additional grants will be payable in lieu of hostel charges and medical charges etc. 

NUMBER OF SCHOLARSHIPS AND TENURE OF SCHOLARSHIP 

The total number of scholarships in the first academic year would be 1800 per year for General Courses and 575 for Honours Courses. The duration of the scholarship will be two years only. The tenure of the scholarship will not be extendable beyond two years, under any circumstances.
The rank holders would be considered only from those universities (including affiliated colleges) wherein at least 1000 students have appeared in the examination in the General courses and 100 in Honours courses at the undergraduate level in the aforesaid programs.
Degrees awarded by the autonomous college are not covered, but these are to be included in the affiliating university and a common ranking is to be indicated.
Eligibility
In General Courses the First and Second Rank holders at UG level and admitted in any Postgraduate Course would be awarded the scholarship. 
In Honours Courses (Main or Major) the scholarship would be awarded only to the First Rank holders. The awardees will have to submit proof of their merit position at the undergraduate level as well as their admission to postgraduate courses. 
The scholarship would be subjected to securing a minimum of 60% marks at the undergraduate level. 
The scheme is applicable to such students who have taken admitted to a regular, full-time Master’s Degree course in any recognized university or a postgraduate college. 
The scholarship is available to the student for the first PG Degree only. 
The age limit for the students is 30 years at the time of admission to the PG course. 
Distance mode of education is not covered under the scheme. 
The following subjects have been identified for the award of scholarships who have passed at the Undergraduate level: 
B.Sc.(General) (Common for all subjects) 
B.A.(General) (Common for all subjects) 
B.Com.(General) 
B.Com (Hons.) 
B.Sc.(Botany) (Hons.) 
B.Sc.(Chemistry) (Hons.) 
B.Sc (Mathematics) (Hons.) 
B.Sc (Physics) (Hons.) 
B.Sc (Statistics) (Hons.) 
B.Sc (Zoology) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Economics) (Hons.) 
B.A. (English) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Geography) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Hindi) (Hons.) 
B.A. (History) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Philosophy) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Political Science) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Psychology) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Sanskrit) (Hons.) 
B.A. (Sociology) (Hons.) 
B.A (Urdu) (Hons.) 

Note: Other combinations of subjects are not covered. Before forwarding applications, students/Universities may kindly ensure that applications satisfy all norms as per guidelines. Applications received for other than the above-mentioned subjects will be summarily rejected. 
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading newspapers and Employment News. The same is also uploaded on the UGC Website www.ugc.ac.in The selection is made on the basis of merit and as per the procedure of the Commission.

Step 1: Go to the official website of UGC: https://www.ugc.ac.in/
Step 2: On the homepage, locate the “e-SARTS Scholarships-Fellowships” link. (Normally placed on the right side of the homepage)
Step 3: A new page will open, wherein the candidate has to select the desired scheme.
Step 4: Click on the “Apply Now” option which is available at the top of the page.
Step 5: Fill out all the required information with personal and academic details.
Step 6: Attach all the required documents in the prescribed format.
Step 7: Lastly, click on Submit to submit the form successfully.

In order to get your application considered, submit it before the deadline.
Documents Required
The candidate is required to submit an application in the prescribed format. 
Attested copy of university undergraduate degree. 
Matriculation certificate. 
A verification certificate by the institute where students have taken admitted to Ist Year P.G. Course.
Prescribed format of a provisional certificate from the university (not for autonomous college). 

CERTIFICATE TO BE SUBMITTED BY THE CONCERNED UNIVERSITY/ INSTITUTION 
Every year University/Institution will submit a compiled statement for the following: 
Statement giving the names of the students selected for the scholarship along with their receipt of the scholarship amount. 
Progress Report to be submitted after the first year of the award giving the percentage of marks obtained by the candidates. 
Utilization certificate.
