Capacity Building For Service Providers - Hunar Se Rozgar Tak
Ministry Of Tourism
EmploymentEntrepreneurshipSkill
Details
The scheme "Hunar Se Rozgar Tak" is a Suo-Moto Sub-Scheme of the Ministry of Tourism under the Umbrella Scheme of "Capacity Building for Service Providers (CBSP)". In this scheme, financial assistance is provided to selected institutes to conduct Skill Development Programmes. The program is aimed at targeting persons with not much means and in need to acquire skills facilitative to employment. 

Benefits
COURSES OFFERED

To begin with, only four National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) approved skill development courses in the hospitality trades of Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant and Front office Associate courses were being conducted under the “Hunar Se Rozgar Tak” programme with effect from 27-12-2016. 

The Ministry of Tourism have since decided to introduce four more courses in the hospitality trades of Laundry Machine Operator, Kitchen Steward, Home Delivery Boy and Traditional Snack & Savoury Maker with immediate effect. TheNSQF approved QP-NOS prescribed in respect of the Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant, Front office Associate, Laundry Machine Operator, Kitchen Steward, Home Delivery Boy, Order taker- Home Delivery and Traditional Snack & Savoury Maker courses have been adopted in full as they presently 
exist. Complete details of the course content/syllabus etc. and may be downloaded from 
the National Qualification Register on their website www.nqr.gov.in.

a) Short Term Hospitality courses for Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant, Front office Associate, Laundry Machine Operator, Kitchen Steward, Home Delivery Boy, and Traditional Snack & Savoury Maker to be implemented only by the Govt. Institutes of Hotel Management/Food Craft Institutes etc. which 
possess the required infrastructure to run them - (Annexure-A)

b) Short Term Hospitality courses for Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant and Front Office Associate to be implemented by State/Union Territory Governments - (Annexure-B)

c) Short Term Hospitality courses for Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant and Front Office Associate to be implemented by State/Union Territory Tourism Development Corp./Boards; (Annexure-C)

d) Short Term Hospitality courses for Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant and Front Office Associate to be implemented by industrial units, associations of industries and professional/skill developing agencies with proven credentials;(Annexure-D)

e) Short Term Hospitality courses for Multi Cuisine Cook, Food & Beverage Service Steward, Room Attendant and Front office Associate to be implemented by Classified Hotels; (Annexure-E)

f) Short Term Hospitality courses for Multi Cuisine Cooks, Food & Beverage Service Stewards, Room Attendant and Front Office Associate to be implemented by hospitality Institutes approved by the AICTE/National Skill Development Agency/State & Union Territory Govts. (Annexure-F)

g) Six-day Skill Testing & Certification courses in Food Production, Bakery and Patisserie, Food & Beverage Service, and Housekeeping Utility for re-skilling/ skill upgradation of persons already engaged in hospitality related occupations to be implemented by Ministry of Tourism sponsored Govt. Institutes of Hotel Management and Food Craft Institutes etc. (Annexure-G)
Eligibility
All Government/Private Institutes/organisations/entities are eligible.
Application Process
Offline
Fresh applications for empanelment as Training Provider under the “Hunar Se Rozgar Tak” Programme of the Ministry Of Tourism would be received by -

Project Manager
PMUSD, Ministry of Tourism
Room No.30, C-1 Hutments, Dara Shikoh Road
New Delhi-110011

from Private Bodies/Institutions/Organisations quarterly i.e., upto 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December every year and be considered by the Screening and Inspection Committees in the succeeding quarter. 
Documents Required
Proof of Identity
Proof of Residence
Proof of Age
Marksheet of Class 8th or Higher Educational Qualification
Aadhaar Card
Passport Sized Photograph
Bank Details
