Delhi Arogya Nidhi
Delhi
ArogyaHealthNidhiPatientTreatment
Details
The "Delhi Arogya Nidhi (DAN)" is a scheme implemented by the Directorate General of Health Services to provide financial assistance of up to ₹1.5 lacs to needy patients who have National Food Security Cards for treatment of diseases in Government hospitals only.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of up to ₹1.5 lacs will be provided to needy patients who have National Food Security Cards for treatment of diseases in Government hospitals only.
Eligibility
Patients should have a National Food Security Card.
The patient must be a resident of Delhi and has to furnish domicile proof of residing in Delhi continuously for the last 3 years (prior to the date of submission of the application).
Treatment should be from the Government Hospital in Delhi.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Visit the official website to download the Application Form for Financial Aid.
Step 02: Fill out the form with all requisites details.
Step 03: The photocopies of all documents are to be attached with the application and the original is to be brought at the time of submission of same for verification.
Step 04: Applicant has to submit an undertaking for his signature verification as given in the application form.
Step 05: Application to be submitted in Patient Welfare Cell, Directorate of Health Services, 6th Floor, F-17, Karkardooma, (Near Karkardooma Court), Delhi-110032.
Documents Required
1. Proof of continuous residence in Delhi for the last 3years through any one of the following documents:
• National Food Security Card
• Electoral Voter’s Photo Identity Card 
• Birth certificate (In case the patient is a minor)
• Extract from the electoral roll
• Aadhaar Card
2. Original Estimate Certificate duly signed by Consultant/ Medical Superintendent/ Chief Medical Officer of the Hospital
3. Two photographs of the patient, duly attested by the treating doctor.
4. A copy of the National Food Security Card.
5. Photocopies of the treatment record
Note: Applicant has to submit an undertaking for his signature verification as given in the application form.
