Mukhya Mantri Hamari Betiyan Yojana
Rajasthan
DBTFinancial AssistanceFor Girls OnlyRajasthanScheme For Girls
Details
Mukhya Mantri Hamari Betiyan Yojana was launched in 2015-16 by centre under the secondary education department for the benefit of girls in their education.
The girl students receive the financial assistance according to the following rules:
While studying in government schools under the scheme, in class 10 examination of Board of Secondary Education Rajasthan, Ajmer in each district -
    02 meritorious girl students who got 1st and 2nd position. (minimum marks 75%)
    2 First position holder B.P.L. 01 meritorious student of the family. (minimum marks 75%)
    Orphan 01 meritorious girl student who got 3 first position. (minimum marks 75%)
Financial assistance is payable for pursuing regular studies up to postgraduate level and the nodal agency is the Girl Child Education Foundation.
    While studying in 4 government schools, in class 10th examination of Board of Secondary Education Rajasthan, Ajmer in each district -
    02 meritorious girl students securing first and second position (minimum 75% marks compulsory).
B.P.L. 01 meritorious student of the family.
    01 meritorious girl student of orphan category who got first position.

The said girl students should continue to study regularly till the postgraduate level.

Benefits
1. For class 11th & 12th students 
One time assistance- 15,000/- p.a. 
on submission of hostel/coaching bills- Maximum 1,00,000/- p.a.


2. For graduate and post graduate
One time assistance- 25,000/- p.a. 
on submission of hostel/coaching bills- Maximum 2,00,000/- p.a.
Eligibility
(While studying in government schools under the scheme, in class 10 examination of Board of Secondary Education Rajasthan, Ajmer in each district -
    02 meritorious girl students who got first and second position. (minimum marks 75%)
    B.P.L. 01 meritorious student of the family. (minimum marks 75%)
    Orphan 01 meritorious girl student who got first position. (minimum marks 75%)
Financial assistance is admissible for pursuing regular studies up to post graduate level
Application Process
Offline
The application form is free for this scheme. Please contact your state government school (rajkiya vidyalaya) for the same.
Documents Required
Bank Passbook Copy
Education Qualification Marksheet / Certificate Copy
Aadhaar Copy
