Savitribai Phule Scholarship For V.J.N.T. And S.B.C. Girl Students Studying In 5th To 7th Standard
Maharashtra
Pre-MatricSBCScholarshipSpecial Backward ClassesVimukta Jati And Nomadic TribesVJNT
Details
Savitribai Phule Scholarship is a Scholarship Scheme by the Social Justice and Special Assistance Department, Government of Maharashtra. The scheme was introduced 12th January 1996. The scheme was further amended in 29th October 1996 to include S.B.C. Students. The objective of the scheme is to encourage the enrollment and to decrease the dropout ratio of Girl Students of Maharashtra from Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) and Special Backward Classes (SBC), studying in Class 5th to Class 7th. The beneficiary is provided ₹ 60/- per month, i.e. ₹ 600/- for ten months.

Benefits
The beneficiary is provided ₹ 60/- per month, i.e. ₹ 600/- for ten months.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a girl.
The applicant must be a resident of the state of Maharashtra.
The applicant must belong to Vimukta Jati and Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) or Special Backward Classes (SBC) Category. 
The applicant must be studying in Class 5th to Class 7th.
The applicant must be studying in a Government Recognized School.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website of Aaple Sarkar / Maha DBT.

Step 2: Click on "New Applicant Registration". Register using your Name, Mobile Number, and Email ID. Create a Username and Password. Your Mobile Number, and Email ID will be verified via OTP.

Note: Username should contain only alphabets and numbers. Username should be greater than 4 characters and less than 15 characters.

Note: Password Length should be minimum 8 characters and maximum 20 characters. Password must contain atleast 1 UpperCase Alphabet, 1 LowerCase Alphabet, 1 Number and 1 Special Character.

Step 3: Now visit https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/Login/Login and login using your Username and Password.
You will be directed to https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/Home/Home. In the left pane, click "Aadhaar Bank Link" to link your Aadhaar with your Bank Account.

Step 4: In the left pane, click "Profile". Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the mandatory documents (Personal Details, Address Information, Other Information, Current Course, Past Qualification, Hostel Details). Click "Save".

Step 5: In the left pane, click "All Schemes". A list of schemes will appear. Click on "Savitribai Phule Scholarship".

Step 6: Fill in all the additional information and upload the mandatory documents. Click "Submit" to submit your application. A pop-up will appear, displaying your Application ID. Save the Application ID for future reference. Click "OK".

Optional: You can track the status of your application (Under Scrutiny / Approved / Rejected / Fund Disbursed) by clicking on "My Applied Scheme History" in the left pane.

Sources:
User Manual of the Registration and Application Process
Flow of the Application Process
Instruction for Cropping Photo and Signature
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number.
Proof of Identity.
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate).
Proof of Address.
Domicile Certificate of Maharashtra.
Caste Certificate VJNT or SBC Community (duly signed by an authorized Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar).
Marksheet of the Latest Educational Qualification.
Fee Receipt of ‘Current Course Year’.
Bank Account Details.
Passport-sized Photograph.
