Chikitsa Pratipoorti Yojana
Jharkhand
Construction WorkerDiseaseFinancial AssistanceHealth
Details
"Chikitsa Pratipoorti Yojana" is a scheme by the Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development Govt of Jharkhand. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme. Only the residents/domicile of the state of Jharkhand can apply to this scheme. Applications for this scheme are accepted online through the official website of the department. The scheme provides financial assistance to the Registered Workers for the treatment of serious illnesses such as cancer, heart disease (including surgery), kidney disease (including surgery), incurable mental disease (including surgery), AIDS, etc. The scheme's benefits are applicable once per disease per beneficiary.

Benefits
The scheme provides financial assistance to the Registered Workers for the treatment of serious illnesses such as cancer, heart disease (including surgery), kidney disease (including surgery), incurable mental disease (including surgery), AIDS, total hip replacement, spinal surgery, major vascular disease, bone marrow transplant, liver transplant, hepatoma, advanced cirrhosis of the liver, retinal detachment, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, reflux disease, reflux disease.
The scheme's benefits are applicable once per disease per beneficiary.

NOTE: The benefits under the scheme will be payable after the recommendation of the district-level committee.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a domicile in the state of Jharkhand.
The applicant should be a Worker registered with the 'Jharkhand Building and Other Construction Worker Welfare Board (JBOCWW Board)'.
The applicant should be 18 years or above in age.
The applicant should be engaged in construction work such as masons, carpenters, electricians, porters, painters, etc.
The scheme's benefits are applicable once per disease per beneficiary.
The applicant should be suffering from one of the following serious illnesses: Cancer, heart disease (including surgery), kidney disease (including surgery), incurable mental disease (including surgery), AIDS, total hip replacement, spinal surgery, major vascular disease, bone marrow transplant, liver transplant, hepatoma, advanced cirrhosis of the liver, retinal detachment, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, reflux disease, reflux disease.

NOTE: The list of diseases and the maximum limit of medical expenditure and modifications/modifications made in the list of listed hospitals by the Department of Health, Medical, Education and Family Welfare from time to time and the modifications/modifications made in the list of listed hospitals will be considered applicable for the purpose of this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official website of Comprehensive Labour Management System for Factory Establishment / Worker Registration / Inspection / Management & Grievance Redressal; Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development; Govt. of Jharkhand.
Step 2: At the top right corner, click "Login". On the pop-up screen, click "Register Here".
Step 3: On the next page, a Registration Form will appear. Provide the following mandatory details: First Name, Last Name, Email, and Mobile. Create a Username and a Password. Confirm the Password. Fill in the Captcha Code. Click "Register". Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via One Time Password (OTP). Upon successful verification of the OTP, your registration will be successful. The Login Credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID and Mobile Number.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official website of Comprehensive Labour Management System for Factory Establishment / Worker Registration / Inspection / Management & Grievance Redressal; Department of Labour, Employment, Training & Skill Development; Govt. of Jharkhand.
Step 2: At the top right corner, click "Login". Fill in your Username and Password. Click "Login".
Step 3: In the ribbon, click "Services > BOC Scheme Benefit > Application Form. On the next page, the "Scheme Benefit Form" (Application Form) will open. 
a)   In the "Basic Details" section, fill in the mandatory fields (fields ending with a red asterisk mark): BOC Registration Number, Applicant's Name, Applicant's Father's Name / Husband's Name, Applicant's Date of Birth, Applicant's Aadhaar Number, District, Sex.
b)   In the "Select Scheme" section, select the scheme from the list that you wish to apply for.
c)   In the "Upload Section", upload the mandatory documents (those ending with a red asterisk mark) in the specified file size and file type.
Step 4: Finally, click on "Submit Request" to submit your application. On the next page, your "Application ID" will be displayed, confirming the successful submission of the application. Please note down this Application ID for future reference. The Application ID will also be sent to your registered Email ID.

Check Application Status: 
Step 1: Once submitted, the application goes for 3-level approval: Clerk > Labour Superintendent > DLC.
Step 2: Go to Services > BOC Scheme Benefit > Application Status.
Step 3: On the next page, fill in your Application ID, and click "Search". The status of your application will be displayed in a tabular format: Application ID, Applicant Name, Scheme Applied, Application Status, Remarks, Date, and Time. 
Step 4: Once the DLC approves the application, the "Application Status" changes to "Approved". The Applicant can take print of this page by clicking “PRINT” and submit the same at the Labour Office to avail of the scheme benefit.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate
Proof of Identity
eSHRAM Card
Passport Sized Photograph
Proof of Registration as a Construction Worker
Details of the Bank Account
Income Certificate
Proof of the Medical Condition
