Nagaland State Merit Scholarship
Nagaland
Financial AssistanceMerit ScholarshipNagaland State
Details
Details
All those students who have secured 80% marks in the class 10th exam while holding the domicile of Nagaland state can apply online under the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship for getting the scholarship amount. This scholarship will not be provided to students who have failed the previous year’s exam.

The DHE has launched the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship for providing socio-economic welfare to the students belonging to the residentship of Nagaland state. The student must be studying or getting admission to the post-matric class (class 11th, 12, UG, PG Degree). The students will also need to secure minimum marks in the previous year’s exam.

Objective 
The primary objective of launching the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship is to provide financial stability to the students studying or undertaking post-matric classes from the Nagaland government schools and colleges. The students will need to secure at least 70% to 80% marks in the previous year’s exam. In case of the scholarship renewal, the students can submit their last year’s Marksheet.
The Nagaland State Merit Scholarship is to provide scholarship amounts to students belonging to the citizenship of Nagaland state so that they will be able to avail the best educational opportunities or facilities after getting this scholarship amount. The Department of Higher Education will be delegated with the task of carrying out scholarship operations.

Benefits
Benefits
Nagaland State Merit Scholarship will provide social security provisions to the students of Nagaland state.
This will proven to be an amazing opportunity.
Students of post-matric classes will be able to secure their scholarship rights.
Students will be given the scholarship amount either on a monthly basis or a yearly basis.
The only selection criteria will be that the student will need to secure at least 70% to 80% marks in the previous year’s exam.
One can also get a scholarship renewal after submitting his or her Marksheet.
This will provide an equal amount of educational opportunities to the students.
Students belonging to the ST categories will also be given the same scholarship references.
Students can apply online under the Nagaland State Merit Scholarship before the last date of online form submission for getting registration on a time.
Students will be given the scholarship amount in the DBT mode
Eligibility
Eligibility
The student must be a permanent resident or citizen of Nagaland state.
The applicant must be a student in a Post-matric class.
The student must secure 70% or 80% marks in the last year’s exam for getting a scholarship renewal.
Students in the ST category will also be given scholarship enrollment.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
First of all the applicant will need to visit and open the Official Website of the Common Scholarship Portal.
Then you will be able to see the homepage on your screen.
Look at the top right-hand side of your screen.
 Click on the Register button.
 A registration form will be displayed on your screen.
Fill this form correctly after reading each column carefully such as:- Name, Gender, Aadhar No, Mobile No, Password, Confirm Password
Then click on the Register button
Documents Required
List of the required document
Aadhar Card
DOB Certificate
Educational Certificates
Mark Sheet
Admission Proof  
Admission Fee Receipt
Parent Annual Income Certificate
Bank Account  Passbook
Latest Passport Size Photograph 
Phone Number
Email Id
