Financial Assistance For Persons With Special Needs
Delhi

Details
Details
Delhi Social Welfare Department is implementing a disability pension which is fusion of State as well Central Government contribution. The scheme is known as Subsistence Allowance/Financial Allowance to person with special need. The grant is Rs 2500/- per month.
These are the below mention disability consider under the scheme.
Blindness 
Low vision 
Leprosy-cured person 
Deaf 
Locomotor Disability 
Cerebral Palsy 
Autism Spectrum Disorder 
Intellectual Disability (Mental Retardation)
Mental Illness 
Dwarfism 
Muscular Dystrophy 
Acid Attack Victims 
Hard of hearing 
Speech and language disability 
Specific Learning Disabilities
Multiple Sclerosis
Parkinson’s Disease 
Hemophilia 
Thalassemia 
Sickle Cell Disease 
Multiple Disabilities

Benefits
Benefits
The applicants get financial assistance of Rs 2500/- per month till the age of 60.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The age of Disabled persons should not be more than 60 years (0 to 60 years). 
Family income should not be more than Rs. 75,000/- p.a. from all sources.
A resident of the National Capital Territory of Delhi for at least 5 years preceding the date of submission of application.
The disability of the applicant should not be less than 40% The Medical Board of Govt. The hospital should issue the disability certificate. 
Should have a 'single-operated' account in any Bank or Post Office for receiving the payment through an electronic clearing system. This provision may be relaxed in the case of minors, mentally challenged applicants or those who come under the purview of Legal Guardianship as per the rules of the National Trust. 
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Log on https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/
Under Citizen Corner click on New User 
Click on select the document – Aadhar or Voter ID 
Enter your Aadhar Card Number/Voter I Card Number 
Type the Captcha in the box shown Citizen Registration Form will Open
Fill up all fields including details of Present Residential Address & Click on Continue.
Login ID and Password will be received on the given mobile number/e-mail address. 
Now Registration on the e-district portal is complete Registration for Financial Assistance Services.
Click on Registered User Login.
Enter the given login ID and Password and Click on Login 
Go to Main Page (Main Page) will open click on apply online.
Drop Box apply for services will open – click
A list of Departments providing online services shall open – Select Department of Social Welfare.
Three Financial Assistance Schemes will be shown. Choose Disability Pension Scheme and Click on Apply. 
Check the BASIC/PERSONAL DETAILS FORM and click on Continue.
The form will open fill up all required fields & upload all required documents as per the requirement of the scheme selected. 
Then click next and upload a photograph 
Then click on finish. 
One OTP will be received on the registered mobile number. 
Enter OTP and Submit.
Acknowledgement of successful submission shall be generated.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
For applying, self-attested documentary proof for the following needs to be scanned and uploaded. 
Age proof (any document as listed for Old Age Pension).
Residence proof.
Bank a/c number (Single a/c). This provision may be relaxed in the case of minors who can have a bank account under guardianship.
Disability Certificate issued by a Government Hospital as per norms.
One passport-size photo of the applicant.
Income self-declaration (format given on the portal can be used).
