Unemployment Allowance To The Educated Unemployed Persons With Disabilities
Manipur
AllowanceFinancial AssistancePersons With DisabilityUnemployed
Details
"Unemployment Allowance to the Educated Unemployed Persons With  Disabilities" is a Financial Assistance Scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Manipur. The payment of unemployment allowance will be applicable to all categories of disabilities except Intellectual Disabilities as specified in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The persons with disability should have minimum qualification of Matriculate and registered with Special Employment Exchange for more than two years and could not be placed in any gainful occupation. The person with disability shall be in the age group of 18-48 years. The applicant should be a Manipuri by birth or settled in the state for at least 10 (ten) years.

Benefits
An unemployment allowance of ₹400/- to ₹1,000/- per month will be provided by the government.
Eligibility
All categories of disabilities except Intellectual Disabilities as specified in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. 
The applicant should be a Person with Disability.
The applicant should have a minimum qualification of Matriculate.
The applicant should be registered with Special Employment Exchange for more than two years and could not be placed in any gainful occupation. 
The applicant should be in the age group of 18-48 years.
The applicant should be a Manipuri by birth or a person who has settled in the state for at least 10 years.
The annual family income of the applicant should not be more than ₹1,80,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The application form can be downloaded from the Department’s website www.socialwelfare.nic.in or collected from the District Social Welfare Offices, Office of CDPOs. The application forms are also available during MeeyamgiNumit at Chief Minister’s Darbar Hall.
Step 2: Fill in the mandatory fields of the Application Form, attach the supporting (self-attested) documents and the passport sized photograph.
Step 3: Submit the form in the Office of the District Social Welfare Officer concerned.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Residential / Domicile Certificate of the state of Manipur.
Disability Certificate (issued by the Competent Authority).
Marksheet / Passing Certificate of Latest Educational Qualification.
Special Employment Exchange Registration Card and Job Seeking Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Details of the Bank Account.
An affidavit duly attested by a Magistrate/ Oath Commissioner in support of his/her claim for unemployment allowance.
Proof of Age.
Caste Certificate, if they belong to reservation communities.
