Merit Cum Means Linked Financial Assistance Scheme
Delhi
DelhiEducationLinked Financial AssistanceMerit Cum Means
Details
Detailed 
Delhi Government wants to enhance access to high-quality higher education for meritorious economically disadvantaged sections of society. Many meritorious students from this section find it hard to bear the full tuition fee, though the better off sections of society do not face this difficulty. To ease the burden on such meritorious students, the Delhi Govt. proposes a Merit cum Means Linked Financial Assistance Scheme for providing tuition fee reimbursement under the aegis of Delhi Higher Education Aid Trust, with the aim to enhance greater access to high-quality higher education for meritorious Students from econ0mically disadvantaged sections of the society. Many students from this section who find it hard to bear the full tuition fee will benefit immensely from the Scheme.

The Scheme is to extend financial assistance to the meritorious and needy students pursuing higher education in the NCT of Delhi. Under this Scheme the Delhi Higher Education Trust through the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE), GNCTD will fully or partially reimburse the tuition fee paid by the students. 
The extent of reimbursement will be 
(i)100% tuition fee of the meritorious students belonging to economically weaker section i.e. wards of parent/s who are beneficiaries and possess relevant cards issued under the National Food Security Security Scheme.
(ii) 50%of the tuition fee to meritorious students having annual family income up to Rs.2.50 Lakh and not covered under the National Food Security Scheme.
(iii) 25% reimbursement of tuition fee to meritorious students having annual income above Rs.2.50 Lakh but below Rs.6 Lakh. It is anticipated that the Scheme will lead to the participation of meritorious economically weaker sections of society in gaining access to quality higher education of which they were deprived till now due to financial constraints. It will also help attract meritorious students to Delhi State Universities.

Benefits
Benefits
The extent of reimbursement will be 
100% tuition fee of the meritorious students belonging to economically weaker section i.e. wards of parent/s who are beneficiaries and possess relevant cards issued under the National Food Security Scheme
50% of the tuition fee to meritorious students having annual family income.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The eligibility criteria for applying under this scheme shall be as follows:
(1) The student should have been enrolled on an undergraduate programme in any of the Delhi State Public Universities or colleges/ institutes affiliated with Delhi State Public Universities.
(2) The student should fulfil the income/ economic and academic performance criteria as specified for each category mentioned below

Eligibility (Gross Annual Family Income of Student from all Sources) Qualifying Aggregate Percentage (Marks in All Subjects) Percentage of Financial Assistance
Category 1: Beneficiary under National Food Security Scheme & possess the Card issued under the Scheme 60% 100%
Category 2: Not covered under category 1 but whose family income is up to Rs.2.50 Lakh p.a. 60% 50%
Category 3: Family income above Rs.2.50 Lakh p.a.but not exceeding Rs.6 Lakh p.a 60% 25%

A relaxation of 5% in the qualifying aggregate percentage of marks will be allowed to SC/ST Category students. 
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Eligible Students want to Apply Online through official website 
Students go through CITIZEN'S CORNER Registration at e-District Delhi New User Registered and Users Login.
The student has to register himself/herself at the link above Link. 
The hard copy of the Application (filled online) along with uploaded documents is required to be submitted in the concerned College/Institute/University.
Documents Required
A student shall submit an application for each year of the Course / Program as per the prescribed format of the concerned institution with the following self­certified documents:
For All Categories of Students
Copy of Mark sheet / Certificate of having passed class XII or qualifying examination.
Certificate related to SC/ST Category issued by the competent authority
Copy of Pass­Book / E­Statement of the student bank account which should be Aadhaar seeded.
All previous mark sheets/certificates from the concerned University/institution of the current programme.
A declaration, as per Format at Annexure­“A”, by the student affirming that no financial support has been availed/is being availed from any other Scheme for meeting the cost of education for the course/program
Additional Documents for Students Requesting Financial Assistance of 100%: Copy of valid card issued under the National Food Security Scheme
Additional Documents for Students Requesting Financial Assistance of 50% : Copy of valid annual family income certificate issued by the SDM/competent authority.
Additional Documents for Students Requesting Financial Assistance of 25%: Copy of the full Income Tax Return (including the acknowledgement page) for both parents filed with Income Tax Department for the previous financial year. In the case of a non­working parent, an affidavit affirming non­ employment certified by the office of SDM/competent authority and family income certificate issued by the SDM/competent authority.
