Mukhyamantri Kanya Abhibhawak Pension Scheme
Madhya Pradesh
Kanya AbhibhawakMukhyamantriPension
Details
Detailed 
The tradition prevalent in India requires the girl to leave her parent’s home after the marriage of the girl and she establishes her own family. In such a situation, the parents who have only female children have to remain alone in their old age after the marriage of their girl child. In this state, parents have to face many problems, especially those parents who do not have a son to look after them. Couples who, in their youth, with a view to establishing a small family without worrying about their children, they adopted a family planning program and supported the program being run by the government for the prevention of growing population. The state should be responsible for providing social security to such a couple. Keeping all these things in mind, the Madhya Pradesh government implemented the Chief Minister Kanya Guardian Pension Scheme to provide social security to those couples who have only kanyas, jointly (couple i.e. husband and wife) on completing 60 years of age.
Purpose
For the purpose of providing social security to those couples who have only kanyas and after the marriage of the girls, the Chief Minister Kanya Guardian Pension Scheme has been started. For more details please visit the departmental website 

Benefits
Benefits
Rs. 600 / - per month to the couple.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The native place should be Madhya Pradesh
The benefits under this scheme can be availed to the couple having an only daughter as a child.
The age of either of the beneficiary couples is 60 years or more.
The beneficiary couple should not be income-tax payers.
The children of the parent(beneficiary couple) should be daughters and should be married.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Application process
Apply with the prescribed application form in the Gram Panchayat / District Panchayat in the rural area of your original residence, 
And In the office of the Municipal Corporation / Municipality / Municipal Council in the urban area.
Documents Required
List of required documents 
Certificate in respect of couple having an only girl child and no living son.
Self-declaration certificate regarding not income taxpayer.
Certificate regarding age and residence.
Joint photo of the couple / one photo in case of singles.
Certificate of death of husband issued by the competent authority for the widow and abandoned women / attested copy of the order issued by the Honorable Court for abandonment.
