Financial Assistance For Marriage (APB&OCWWB)
Arunachal Pradesh
Construction WorkerFinancial AssistanceMarriage
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Marriage” was started by the Department of Labour and Employment, Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh for registered workers of Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB). The state government has proposed and implemented this scheme through the APB&OCWWB for providing financial assistance for marriage of two children of the registered workers.

Benefits
1. Under this scheme, the cash assistance of ₹10,000/- will be given to the registered workers.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. The applicant must be employed in the Building and Other Construction works.
3. The applicant should be registered with Labour Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
4. The applicant’s membership must be active at the time of application for availing marriage assistance of his/her children.
5. The age of applicant’s children should be above 18 and 21 years of age for female and male respectively.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant needs to be register as the Labour/Worker under the Arunachal Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (APB&OCWWB).
Step 02: The applicant can obtain the application form from Registered Office, APB&OCWWB of respective District and can also be downloaded from the official website of Department of Labour and Employment. https://cdn.s3waas.gov.in/s39b70e8fe62e40c570a322f1b0b659098/uploads/2018/08/2018083084.pdf
Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant will be registered as a worker/labour under Board and an Identity Card to be issued to him/her.
Application Process:
Step 01: For taking benefits of this scheme, the applicant needs to contact Registering Officers, APB&OCWWB of respective District.
Step 02: Application in prescribed format may be received from concerned office.
Step 03: The applicant need to fill the application form completely and attach all the relevant documents. Thereafter, the applicant may submit the application form in the concerned office.
Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card etc.
Xerox copy of the registration card of the worker
Application form
Bank Account number/ front page of the passbook
Passport size photographs
Birth certificate as age proof of children
Address proof
