Mukhyamantri Amrutum Yojana Scheme
Gujarat
Amrutam YojanaGujratHealthWellness
Details
Details
A large number of households are pushed into poverty as a result of the high costs of household spending on health care. The Below Poverty Line (BPL) population is especially vulnerable to catastrophic health risks. To address this key vulnerability faced by the BPL population in Gujarat, the State Government has launched a medical care scheme called Mukhyamantri Amrutum (MA) Yojana. The objective of the scheme is to improve access of BPL families to quality medical and surgical care for the treatment of identified diseases involving hospitalization, surgeries and therapies through an em panel network of health care providers.

Benefits
Surgeries Covered in this Scheme
Cardiovascular Surgeries (a total 153 Benefit Packages)
Neurosurgery (a total 49 Benefit Packages)
Burns (a total 12 Benefit Packages)
Poly Trauma (Not covered by Motor Vehicle Insurance) (a total 8 Benefit Packages)
Cancer (Malignancies) (Surgical Oncology, Chemotherapy & Radiation Oncology) (a total 210 Benefit Packages)
Renal (Kidney) (a total 21 Benefit Packages)
Neonatal (newborn) diseases (a total 23 Benefit Packages) 

Mukhyamantri Amrutum Yojana provides quality medical and surgical care for catastrophic illnesses involving hospitalization, surgeries and therapies through an em panel network of hospitals to the BPL families.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The individuals and families listed in the BPL list by the State Government are eligible under the MA Yojana. Furthermore, each family member should be present when enrolled under the scheme. However, families that belong marginally above the poverty line can be under the MA Vatsalya Yojana if they follow these criteria –
 1) The annual income of the family is up to ₹4 Lakhs   
2) Any member(s) who are Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers
3) Any member(s) who have accredited reporters
4) Class-3 and Class-4 employees employed on a fixed payroll by the State Government
5) Senior Citizens with families of a total annual income of up to ₹6 Lakhs
Application Process
Offline
Application Form
The eligible beneficiaries must visit the Kiosks at Taluka or Civic Centres in their area. Mobile kiosks are also available at a local level.
The authorities are well equipped with the needed hardware for enrolment.
The hardware is used to capture biometrics such as fingerprints, iris scans, and photos of the beneficiaries.
The beneficiaries might even have to fill out the MA Card application form in Gujarati with appropriate details.
Once the details are verified, the MA health card is issued to the beneficiaries and the enrolment process is complete.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Address proof.
Identification proof.
Proof of income.
Certificate saying that your family qualifies for the below-the-poverty line.
