Chief Minister’s UPSC Combined Civil Services Coaching Scheme
Arunachal Pradesh
Civil ServiceCoachingSchedule TribeStudentUPSC
Details
The Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh has started the scheme “Chief Minister’s UPSC Combined Civil Services Coaching Scheme” to promote the local Arunachal Pradesh Schedule Tribe (APST) candidates to compete in the National Competitive Examination being conducted by the UPSC as there is a smaller number of candidates who appear and emerge successful from Arunachal Pradesh.
Objective:
To provide quality coaching for economically disadvantaged ST Candidates to enable them to compete in the National level competitive examination and succeed in obtaining an appropriate job.
The courses for which the coaching will be imparted, are a combined Civil Service examination being conducted by the UPSC.
To encourage the APST students to participate in National level examinations.
Important Features:
Earlier the state govt of Arunachal Pradesh was providing financial assistance to the candidates who qualify for UPSC combined Civil Service Examination and the State was extending ₹2.00 lakhs for the qualifying preliminary examination and ₹3.00 lakhs for qualifying main examination (one-time).
The State Govt. has also taken a decision to extend financial assistance to APST candidates who qualify for 8 UPSC examinations namely: CDS, NDA, IFoS, IES, IEoS, CPO (Central Police Organisation), CHS (Central Health Services), @₹2.00 lakhs for clearing the exams, after the final selection of the candidate (one time).
The State govt. felt that apart from extending financial assistance, imparting of coaching within the state itself shall encourage the aspiring APST candidates in the UPSC examination. Further, it is also felt that it would be economical for the aspirants to undergo coaching in the state itself rather than going to Delhi for the same.
A one-time amount is given directly to the Students.
The Scheme will be implemented through the reputed coaching institutes/centers being run by the registered societies/ NGOs.
Terms of Payment to the Coaching Institutes:
50% of the total cost-fee must be released by the State Govt. within one month from the date of empanelment after the bill has been raised by the Institute.
The remaining 50% will be paid after completion of the course in all respects.
In case of any drop-out, the State Govt. in consultation with the Institute shall take immediate steps to allow the waitlisted candidates to join the course for the remaining period, or the State Govt. shall deduct the equivalent fees from the total bills.

Benefits
Training Cost of ₹70,000 per student for General Studies along with study material to the candidates at no extra cost will be paid by the state government.
Training Cost of ₹30,000 per student for Optional Papers (Geography/ Public Administration, Sociology, etc.) ( 3-month course duration) will be paid by the state government.
Benefits can be availed for one year from the time of enrolment.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
The applicant must belong to Arunachal Pradesh Schedule Tribe (APST) category.
The students who have qualified and gone through the counseling/ Pre-selection tests following the objective criteria, as deemed appropriate are eligible for the scheme.
Note 01: The scheme will be implemented through the reputed coaching institutes/centers being run by registered societies/ NGOs.
Note 02:Training Cost is restricted to 25 per batch.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant needs to contact the Directorate of Higher and Technical Education.

Step 02: Applications in the prescribed format are received from the concerned department.

Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to the concerned department.

Step 04: After successful verification, the applicant can avail the benefit of the scheme.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card 
APST Certificate
Prelims result
Mains result
Admit card of the exams
Bank details
Passport size photograph
Dept. form for the Scheme to be filled
Coaching Institutes to conduct a selection test to undergo Coaching
