Financial Grants In Aid To SC/ST Patients Suffering From Cancer And Other Malignant Diseases
Assam
Financial AssistanceMedical TreatmentPatientsScheduled CasteScheduled Tribe
Details
The Scheduled Castes people who constitute 7.15% and the Scheduled Tribe people who constitute 12.44% of the total population of the State of Assam as per the 2011 Census are Socio Economically backward. Special provisions have been enshrined in the Constitution for the welfare of SC / ST people in every sphere of their life. There are a number of SC/ST people suffering from cancer and other malignant diseases who are unable to carry forward the treatment of their diseases due to the economic hardships faced by them. The Government has decided to bring some succour to such patients by making available some financial assistance in the form of grants in Aid to SC /ST patients suffering from cancer and other malignant diseases.
               The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance in the form of grants in Aid to SC/ST patients who are suffering from cancer and other malignant diseases and are unable to afford advanced treatment due to their Socio-economic condition prevalent in the community. Under the scheme, SC/ST patients will be given a one-time, fixed financial assistance of ₹ 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty thousand) only.

Benefits
The scheme shall help SC/ST patients suffering from cancer and other malignant diseases to carry forward the treatment of their diseases by making available some financial assistance in the form of grants in Aid.
Under the scheme, SC/ST patients will be given a one-time, fixed financial assistance of ₹ 50,000/-only.
Eligibility
The applicant must belong to a SC/ST community of Assam. 
A person suffering from cancer or other malignant diseases may apply.
No person shall be eligible to claim this financial aid more than once. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Advertisement shall be made in leading widely circulated newspapers inviting applications from SC/ST Persons Suffering from Cancer or other malignant diseases seeking lump-sum financial assistance in the form of grants in Aid, through Sub-divisional Welfare Offices / ITDPs or directly to the Directorate of Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Assam/Directorate of Welfare of Plain Tribe and Backward Classes, Assam. Applications should be made along with all the relevant documents.

Step 02: Applicants should apply as per the criteria sought in advertisements circulated in Newspapers.

Post-Application Processes:

Step 01: A Scrutiny Committee shall be constituted by the Director of Welfare of SC, Assam /Director of Welfare of Plain Tribe and Backward Classes, Assam which will scrutinize the documents submitted by the applicants and submits its findings in a report to the Selection Committee within a week.

Step 02: The Selection Committee will look into the report submitted by the Scrutiny Committee. The Committee shall finally select the list of SC/ST patients suffering from cancer and other malignant disease, who shall be able to avail the financial assistance after ensuring that all the eligibility criteria required availing the benefit of the Scheme, are fulfilled by the applicants.

Note: Applications may be made online as and when the Official Website of the Directorate of Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Assam, Directorate of Welfare of Plain Tribe and Backward Classes, Assam starts to be fully functional.
Documents Required
Caste Certificate in prescribed Performa of applicant suffering from Cancer or other malignant diseases issued by the concerned authority.
Medical certificate of the applicant and relevant documents.
Passport size Photograph of the applicant.
Bank Account No. along with IFSC of the applicant.(copy of Front Page of Bank Pass Book )
Caste Certificate
Bills of medical expenses.
Income certificate
