Incubation Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Business & EntreurprneurshipCapital SupportFinancial SupportPlant And Machinery
Details
Launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises , Incubation Scheme Under MSME Innovative Scheme aims to promote and support untapped creativity and to promote adoption of latest technologies in MSMEs that seek the validation of their ideas at the proof-of-concept level. The scheme also supports engagement with enablers who will advise such MSMEs in expanding the business by supporting them in design, strategy and execution.

Activities:
Recognition of eligible institutions as Host Institute (HI) to act as Business Incubator (BI);
Approval of Ideas of Incubatees submitted through Host Institute (HI);
Assistance for nurturing of Ideas to HI;
Assistance towards Capital Support to HI for Plant and Machiner.

Benefits
Up to maximum of ₹ 15,000,00 /-per idea shall be provided to HI for developing and nurturing the ideas.
Up to ₹ 1,00,000,00 /- (max) shall be provided to HI for procurement and installation of relevant plant and machines including hardware and software etc. in BI for R&D activities and common facilities for incubatees of BI.
Eligibility
Institutions such as Technical Colleges, Universities, other Professional Colleges/Institutes, R&D Institutes, NGOs involved in incubation activities, MSME-DIs/ Technology Centres or any Institute/Organization of Central/State Government.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 01: After opening the official website  click on REGISTRATION button.
Step 02: Enter all the details and clicking on Submit button.
Step 03: After clicking the submit button, registration successfully message will be displayed. Clicking on OK button, login window will be displayed.

HI/BI Application for Approval:
Step 01: After successful login, the HI/BI dashboard will be open. HI/BI application will be open by clicking on Apply for HI/BI Approval button. After clicking on button Apply button will be displayed.
Step 02: After click on Apply button, HI/BI application window will be display, fill all the detail and click on Final Submit button.
Documents Required
University Affliation;
All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Approval;
National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) or Other Accreditation;
Last two years audited annual accounts with auditor’s report;
Any other documents as required.
