Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Grant Scheme
Maharashtra
Below Poverty LineDestituteFinancial AsisstanceOrphanPerson With DisabilityTransgenderWidow
Details
The "Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Grant Scheme" is a scheme by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. In this scheme, financial assistance of ₹600/- per month is given if there is only one beneficiary in the eligible family, and ₹900/- per month if there is more than one beneficiary in a family. In order to be eligible for this scheme, the name should be in the list of BPL families or the annual income of the family should be less than or equal to ₹ 21,000/-. Only citizens who are permanent residents of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply for this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹ 600/- per month, if there is one beneficiary in the eligible family.
Financial assistance of ₹ 900/- per month, if there is more than one beneficiary in the eligible family.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Maharashtra.
The name of the applicant should be in the list of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families OR the annual income of the family should be less than or equal to ₹ 21,000/-.
The applicant should be one of the following:
           a) Destitute Men and Women below 65 Years of Age.
           b) Orphan Children.
           c) All categories of Person with Disability (PwD).
           d) Men and Women Who Are Unable to Sustain Themselves Due to Diseases Like Tuberculosis, Cancer, Aids, Leprosy.
           e) Destitute Widows (including widows of farmers who committed suicide).
           f) Women in the Divorce Process and Divorced but Not Alimony.
           g) Women Who Have Been Tortured and Released From Prostitution.
           h) Transgender.
           i) Devadasi.
           j) Unmarried Women Above 35 Years of Age.
           k) The Wives of Prisoners Serving Sentences in Jail.
           l) Those Suffering From Sickle Cell Disease.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: Visit the Collector's Office / Tahsildar Sanjay Gandhi Yojana / Talathi Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Collector's Office / Tahsildar Sanjay Gandhi Yojana / Talathi Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
2-Passport Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State of Maharashtra.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
Medical Certificate OR Certificate of Incapacity/Disease (issued by the Civil Surgeon and Medical Superintendent of the Government Hospital) (In the case of major illness)
Proof of Age
Income Certificate / BPL Card of the Family
Disability Certificate
Transgender Certificate (in case the applicant is Transgender)
Marriage Certificate, and Death Certificate of Husband (in the case of Widow applicants)
