Rastriya Arogya Nidhi - Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund
Ministry Of Health & Family Welfare
BPLCancer Treatment
Details
The “Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund (HMCPF) within the Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN)” was set up in 2009.  

It is a scheme to provide financial assistance to poor patients living below poverty line and suffering from cancer, for their treatment at 27 Regional cancer centers (RCCs). Revolving Funds have been created in all the 27 Regional Cancer Centres (RCCs) and funds up to Rs. 50 lakhs will be placed at their disposal.

The financial assistance to a Cancer Patient up to Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two lakh only) is processed by the Institute/Hospitals concerned through the revolving fund placed at their disposal. 

Individual cases, which require assistance of more than Rs. 2.00 lakh is to be sent to the Ministry for processing. 

Benefits
Financial assistance of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rs. Two lakh only) is provided towards treatment.

*Note - Individual cases, which require assistance of more than Rs. 2.00 lakh will be sent to the Ministry for processing.

List of the treatments under this scheme -

Radiation treatment of all kinds including Radio Therapy and Gama Knife Surgery/GRT/MRT/Brachytherapy.
Anti-Cancer Chemotherapy with supportive medication including hormonal therapy.
Bone Marrow Transplantation- Allogenic& Autologous
Diagnostic Procedures- including PET scan.
Surgery for operable malignant tumours. 
Eligibility
Eligibility for Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund (HMCPF) within RAN : 

The fund will provide financial assistance to patients, living below poverty line who is suffering from Cancer.
Assistance is admissible for treatment in 27 Regional Cancer Centre(s) (RCC) only. 
Central Govt./State Govt. /PSU employees are not eligible for financial assistance from HMCPF. 
Grant from HMCPF would not be used where treatment /facilities for cancer treatment are available free of cost
Application Process
Offline
An application form has been prescribed for this purpose, which is available free of cost and can also be downloaded from the following URL - https://main.mohfw.gov.in/sites/default/files/45662929341448017999_0.pdf
Patient then need to fill the Application form in prescribed format.
Once it is completely filled, patient or applicant need to get it duly signed/stamped by the treating doctor and Head of Department and countersigned by the Medical Superintendent from the Government hospital from where the patient is receiving treatment.
After completing all the documentation work, Applicant/Patient should submit the application form along with required documents to the following – 

Section Officer, Grants Section, 
Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, 
Room No. 541- A wing, Nirman Bhavan, 
New Delhi-110011.
Documents Required
 To avail financial assistance under Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi (RAN), the patient is required to submit :

Application form in prescribed proforma duly signed by the treating doctor and countersigned by the Medical Superintendent of the Government hospital/institute.
Monthly income of the patient/parents duly certified by the Block/Mandal Development Officer/ Tehsildar/ SDM/ Special Officer of Municipal Board/ District Officer, certifying that the beneficiary belongs to a family living below poverty line in the area of their jurisdiction indicating source of income . The original certificate is required for the purpose.
Copy of the Ration Card duly attested by a Gazetted Officer with official seal
