ARAVANAIPPU
Puducherry
ChildFinancial AssistanceGirlMotherNutrition
Details
The scheme "ARAVANAIPPU" is a financial assistance scheme by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme aims to improve the status of the girl child and provide nutritious food; financial assistance of ₹1200 is offered to lactating mothers. The girl child of the applicant should be born after 1-4-2005. This assistance is provided only for upto two girl children.

Benefits
₹1200 financial assistance to lactating mothers.
*The selection is periodical and depends on the availability of funds.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than five years.
The applicant should have an annual family income not exceeding ₹24,000.
The applicant should be at least 18 years old.
The girl child of the applicant should be born after 1-4-2005.
The assistance is provided only for two girl children.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card.
2. Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
3. Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
4. Voter ID Card.
5. Passport-sized Photograph.
6. Declaration/Undertaking (if any).
7. Birth Certificate of the Girl Child.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
