Scholarship For Differently Abled Students
Kerala
DisabilityEducationScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme “Scholarship for Differently Abled Students” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, the differently abled students studying in Schools, Colleges, and those who attend Professional, PG courses and technical training are being given scholarships by Social Justice Department. The disability category of students (Blind/Deaf/Orthopedically handicapped/Mental Retardation) with a disability of 40% or more and who obtain 40% marks in the examination in the previous year are eligible to apply for the scholarships. 

Benefits
The scholarship is being provided to students whose disability percentage is 40% or above on the following basis:
Sl. No. Standard Day Scholars Hostel Students Reader’s allowance
1 Students from Class 1 to Class 4 ₹300/- per month - ₹200/- per month
2 Students from Class 5 to Class 10 ₹500/- per month - ₹200/- per month
3 +1, +2, IT Equivalent courses ₹750/- per month ₹1000/- per month ₹300/- per month
4 Degree, Polytechnic, Equivalent training courses, (Implant training)  ₹1000/- per month ₹1500/- per month ₹400/- per month
5 Professional, PG courses ₹1000/- per month ₹1500/- per month ₹400/- per month
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Kerala.
The applicant should be a differently abled student.
The differently abled student should have a disability of 40 % or more.
Disability category of students (Blind / Deaf / Orthopedically handicapped/ Mental Retardation).
The differently abled students studying in Schools, Colleges and attending Professional, PG courses and technical training are eligible to apply under the scheme.
Students with disabilities who have secured at least 40% marks in the previous year can apply under the scheme.
The annual family income of the applicant should be below ₹36,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Note 01: The applications must be submitted after the commencement of the Academic year (within 3 months).
Note 02: The application form must be filled in completely, incomplete as well as late applications will be rejected.
Documents Required
Identity card i.e. Aadhaar Card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Disability certificate from Medical board/Disability Identity card
Educational Certificates
Income Certificate
Certificate from Head of Institution
Copy of Parent's Identity Document
Bank details- Copy of Pass Book
Other documents, if any
