AICTE – Saksham Scholarship Scheme For Specially-Abled Student (Degree)
Ministry of Education
PwDScholarship
Details
Saksham is a Scholarship Scheme by the Ministry of Education, implemented by AICTE, aimed at providing encouragement and support to specially-abled children to pursue technical education. This is an attempt to give every young student, who is otherwise specially abled, the opportunity to study further and prepare for a successful future through technical education/ knowledge. ₹50,000/- per annum for every year of study i.e. maximum 4 years for the first year admitted students and maximum 3 years for the second year admitted students through lateral entry as lump sum amount towards payment of college fee, purchase of computer, stationeries, books, equipment, software, etc. The candidate should be admitted to the First year of the Degree level course OR the Second year of the Degree level course through lateral entry in any of the AICTE-approved institutions of the respective year. Family income from all sources should not be more than Rs. 8 lakh per annum during the current financial year.

Benefits
₹50,000/- per annum for every year of study i.e. maximum 4 years for the first year admitted students and maximum 3 years for the second year admitted students through lateral entry as lump sum amount towards payment of college fee, purchase of computer, stationeries, books, equipment, software, etc.
After selection, the awardee will be paid a scholarship through DBT mode on annual basis.
The scholarship will be renewed for the next year of study on receipt of renewal through National Scholarship Portal by submitting a passing certificate/ mark sheet along with letter from the Head of the Institution on the online portal
Eligibility
The candidate should be admitted to the First year of the Degree level course OR the Second year of the Degree level course through lateral entry in any of the AICTE-approved institutions of the respective year.
Specially-abled students have a disability of not less than 40%.
Family income from all sources should not be more than Rs. 8 lakh per annum during the current financial year. A valid income certificate issued by State /UT Government needs to be enclosed.
Application Process
Online
Step 1:   Keep ready the soft copies of the required documents.
Go to http://www.scholarships.gov.in/. and click “New Registration”.
Guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. 
Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory)
Fill in the details and click “Register”. 
Your Application ID and password will be displayed.
The same will also be sent as an SMS on your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction 
Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password.
Type the Captcha and click “Login”.
On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen.
Create a new password and confirm.
Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill the details and upload the documents.
You can either click on “Save as Draft” to com
Documents Required
Aadhaar
Copy of SSC/10th certificate & mark sheet,
Copy of HSC/12th certificate (In case of Degree level) & mark sheet.
Copy of ITI certificate (In case of Lateral Entry for Diploma level) & mark sheet.
Copy of Diploma certificate (In case of Lateral Entry for Degree level) & mark sheet.
Category Certificate, if applicable.
Study/ Bonafide Certificate (Appendix-I).
Annual Family Income Certificate (Appendix-II).
Promotion Certificate in case of renewal (Appendix-III).
