SEBI ITD Internship Program
Ministry Of Finance
BusinessData AnalyticsFinTechInternshipStudent
Details
The SEBI ITD Internship Program provides hands-on training to the students of the institutes based in and around Mumbai. The program accepts up to 15 interns. The Interns accepted under this program would be given an opportunity to work on different Information Technology (IT) projects including Data Analytics (DA), regulatory business processes and reporting, and FinTech at SEBI. Such projects will provide an exceptional opportunity to the interns to apply their IT and DA skills while gaining valuable exposure to the functioning of the Indian capital markets.

Duration
The internship program is proposed to be for a contiguous period of minimum 1 year which may comprise of either 2 semesters and 1 summer / winter internship or 3 trimesters and 1 summer / winter internship.

Schedule
At least 3 days a week of internship at SEBI (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays).

Benefits
Stipend (₹)
For interns working 3 days in a week: 25,000
For interns working 4 days in a week: 30,000

Leaves
For interns working 3 days in a week: 9
For interns working 4 days in a week: 12

Accommodation
Unfurnished shared accommodation only for outstation candidates, subject to availability

Certificate
A certificate of completion of internship program by SEBI.

Other Perks
Public holidays as observed by SEBI.
Lunch at SEBI office.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a student pursuing a full-time MBA/MCA or equivalent degree or diploma of a duration of two years from an eligible institute.
The applicant should hold a full-time graduate degree in engineering or a BCA degree.
The applicant should have a strong aptitude for computer programming and data analytics. 
The applicant should have a minimum 60% aggregate marks at graduate level or equivalent CGPA
The age of the applicant should not be more than 30 years as on 1st January of the respective year.
The applicant should be an Indian citizen.
NOTE: A basic understanding of financial markets is desirable but not mandatory.
Application Process
Offline
The eligible institutes may express their interest to participate in SEBI ITD Internship Program in the prescribed format Annexure-1) along with the relevant enclosures on or before January 20, 2020, including the profiles of the interested eligible candidates in the prescribed format (Annexure 2). The applications should be addressed to:
Chief General Manager, Information Technology Department, SEB/ Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai, 400051, Maharashtra, India.
Documents Required
Profile of the interested eligible candidates in the prescribed format (Annexure 2)
