Internship Scheme Of Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO)
Ministry Of Labour and Employment
InternshipLawProvident FundRemunerationStudent
Details

The Internship Scheme of Employees’ Provident Fund Organization invites applications for Internships from students for engagement as “Interns” with EPFO. The “Interns” shall have an opportunity to know about the EPFO’s functioning and Departmental Policy issues in EPFO and Government of India and contribute to the Policy/Legislation formulation by generating policy inputs such as empirical analysis, briefing reports, policy papers, etc. However, the internship is neither a job nor an assurance for a job in EPFO.

Objective
To engage persons pursuing law [in the last two years of degree course] or Law Graduates or students pursing Post Graduation in Law or Research Scholars in Law or pursuing post-graduation courses like MBA/MSW/MSc/MA and are enrolled in recognized University/Institution within India or abroad as ‘Interns” with EPFO that shall be mutually beneficial for the individual as well as for EPFO. 
The “Interns” shall have an opportunity to know about the EPFO functioning and Department Policy issues in EPFO and Government of India and contribute to the Policy/Legislation formulation by generating policy inputs such as empirical analysis, briefing reports, policy papers, etc. 
However, the internship is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the EPFO.

Duration
Applications for internships are invited for a minimum period of 2 months and a maximum period of 6 months.

Engagement
Engagement of Interns (total 10 maximum) will be carried out with the approval of Central Provident Fund Commissioner. 

Placement
After their engagement, the interns will be attached to an officer in a Division/Department/Wing as decided by the Central Provident fund Commissioner, keeping in view their suitability as well as requirement in concerned Wing/Division.

Benefits
Stipend
The interns selected will be paid stipend @ ₹ 8,000/- per month for the period of internship on certification from the officer with whom the intern is attached.

Logistic Support
EPFO shall provide them with working space and computer with internet facility and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned Divisional Head of the Division/Department/Wing to which the interns are attached.

Certificate of Internship
Certificate will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of the internship and on submission of their Report/Paper and its evaluation by the concerned Head of the Division.
Eligibility
1.  The applicant should qualify as ANY ONE of the following - 
        a)   Pursuing law [in the last two years of degree course] or Law Graduates.
        b)   Pursuing Post Graduation in Law or Research Scholars in Law.
        c)   Pursuing post-graduation courses like MBA/MSW/ MSC/MA/M.Com./MCA.
2.  The applicant should be enrolled in recognized University/Institution within India or abroad.
Application Process
Online
The application must be submitted in the prescribed format along with the required (self-attested) documents by EMAIL ONLY to rc.hrm@epfindia.gov.in.
NOTE: Soft copies of mark sheets /certificates etc. in support of qualifications and other documentary proof need not be sent with the application.
Documents Required
At the time of Application - 
1. Letter of Recommendation from the Head of Institution on the official stationery where the applicant studying.
2. Permission Letter / No Objection Certificate from the Supervisor or Head of Department of the Institution where the applicant is enrolled, in case the internship is to be pursued in parallel with an ongoing course.
[NOTE: The Letter of Recommendation should indicate particulars of the applicant viz. the course being pursued, Enrollment/Roll No., Batch/Year of the Course, duration of internship required, etc. The letter should also briefly indicate the personal characteristics, bearing and suitability for pursuing the internship in EPFO]

At the time of Selection - 
1. Copy of documentary proofs of identity which should include copy of passport, Aadhar Card, Voter Card, etc. and passport, OCI Card and National Identity Card in case of OCI card holders.
2. Curriculum Vitae.
3. Self-attested certificates/mark sheet/transcripts for all the accomplishments mentioned with regard to particulars mentioned in Application Form (i.e. educational qualifications, current courses being pursued and projects) along with originals.
NOTE:  The original documents would be verified at the time of selection.

At the time of Completion of the Internship - 
The interns will be required to present to the Head of the Division a Report / Paper on the allotted subject at the end of the internship.
