Post Graduate Scholarship Scheme for GATE/GPAT Qualified Students-AICTE
Ministry of Education
AICTECEEDGATEGPATPost GraduateScholarship
Details
The scheme “Post Graduate Scholarship Scheme for GATE/GPAT Qualified Students- AICTE” has been started by the All India Council for Technical Education, Government of India. AICTE in order to ensure the development of technical education in India awards Post Graduate Scholarship of ₹12,400/- per month to full-time GATE/CEED qualified students admitted to AICTE approved post-graduate programs in AICTE approved Institutions/ University Departments as per AICTE approved intake.

Benefits
Amount of Scholarship:
The Scholarship under the scheme is ₹12,400/- per month per student.
Other Entitlements: Students are eligible for the following leaves-
Casual leave: 15 days in an academic year
Medical leave: Maximum of one month (30 days) in an academic year
Maternity leave: Candidates are eligible for maternity/ Paternity leave as per Govt. of India norms issued from time to time at full rates of scholarship etc. once during the tenure of their award. However maximum duration of the scholarship will not be extended in any circumstances.
Duration:
The Scholarship is tenable for 24 months or for the duration of the course i.e. from the date of commencement of classes till the date of completion of the classes whichever is lower and is not extendable under any circumstances.
Students of final years of dual degree integrated programmes would also be entitled to a PG Scholarship from the 9th semester onwards i.e. only for one year in the final year.
Note 01: All kinds of leave should be approved at the level of the University/College/Institute. Prior approval of the University/Institution/College is mandatory for all types of leaves.
Note 02: It will be obligatory for every post-graduate student to undertake 8 to 10 hours (per week) of work related to teaching and research activities as assigned to him /her by the Institute. This could include tutorials, laboratory classes, development and maintenance of laboratories, assistance in research and development activities undertaken by faculty members, maintenance and operation of Computers and other central facilities, assistance in library, etc.
Eligibility
Post Graduate Scholarship is entitled only to those students:
Having a valid GATE/CEED score at the time of admission.
Must be admitted as a full-time scholar.
Students of final years of dual degree integrated programmes would also be entitled to a PG Scholarship from the 9th semester onwards i.e. only for one year in the final year.
Admitted in AICTE approved Institutions/University Departments & AICTE approved programs viz. Master of Engineering, Master of Technology, and Master of Design.
Number of PG scholarships is limited to the AICTE-approved intake in the programme in that year. However, in addition to the approved intake, AICTE will provide a PG scholarship to the additional 10% of candidates over and above the approved intake of that course from the EWS category, if the university/ institute has admitted students from Economically Weaker Sections (EWSs) as per MHRD OM F.No.12-4/2019-U1 dated 17th January 2019.
Application Process
Online
On-line proposals are invited from AICTE approved Institutions for disbursement of Post Graduate Scholarship to the students admitted in AICTE approved Institutes/Programs and within approved intake of M.E/M.Tech./M.Arch./M.Des. through DBT for the 1st year students having gained qualifying marks with valid GATE/CEED score card.
Procedure to be followed by Institutes and students eligible for AICTE PG scholarship.
Step 01: All the eligible Institutes shall upload the eligible PG Student’s details on the AICTE portal and distribute the student’s Unique ID generated by the system to all the PG students admitted in AICTE approved Institutes/Programs.
Step 02: All the students undergoing Post Graduate courses having valid GATE/CEED scores and admitted in AICTE approved Institutes/Programs and within approved intake shall collect the Unique ID from the institute and login at the link: https://pgscholarship.aicte-india.org/ for uploading the scanned copies of all original documents in JPG/JPEG format only.
Step 03: The Institute shall then verify the student's data and approve his/her candidature on the portal. (Students verification) and approved for eligibility for disbursement of the scholarship.
Note 01: It may be ensured by the Institute that students' personal details, date of admission/date of commencement & course completion date are correctly filled in.
Note 02: Detailed general guidelines/instructions/FAQs and procedure for online registration of students and approval of eligibility of the student by the institute are available at the link: https://www.aicteindia.org/schemes/students-development-schemes/PG-Scholarship-Scheme.
Documents Required
1. Copy of Aadhaar Card
2. Passport-size Photograph
3. Proof of age
4. Mark Sheets/Grade Cards & Degrees
5. Copy of GATE/CEED scorecard
6. Caste certificate, if applicable
7. Disability certificate, if applicable
8. Income Certificate, if applicable
9. Bank account details:
No-Frill Accounts, Jan Dhan accounts, Bank Accounts having limits on transactions/credits, and joint Accounts are not permitted.
Bank accounts should not either be closed or transferred/shifted during the period of course.
10. Any other document, if required.
Note: Aadhaar number is mandatory for applying for a PG scholarship. Applications will not be accepted without the Aadhaar number of the candidate.
