Central Assistance For One Time Settlement Of Displaced Families From PoK And Chhamb Under Prime Minister's Development Package
Ministry Of Home Affairs
BusinessDisplacedFamilyFarmingJammuKashmirRehabilitation
Details
A relief and rehabilitation scheme by the Ministry of Home Affairs provides central assistance to the displaced families from PoK And Chhamb and settled in the state of Jammu & Kashmir.

The Claimant/Head of the Displaced Persons family or his/her successor or heir residing within the State should be part of the overall category of 36,384 families belonging to any of the following categories:

i. Pakistan occupied Jammu & Kashmir 1947 Displaced Persons
ii. Chhamb 1965 and 1971 (camp/non-camp) Displaced Persons

The amount of Central Assistance of Rs. 5,49,692/- per family will be distributed through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) method to the eligible beneficiaries by the Central Government directly and State Government will transfer the State's share of Rs. 308/- per family to the beneficiaries through DBT.

Benefits
One-Time full and final settlement of Rs. 2,000 crore for rehabilitation package for 36,384 such families against the properties they were forced to part with due to war and hostilities.
Supplementary financial assistance so as to enable such families to run small business or to undertake scientific farming, livestock or other land-based activities, which can provide the displaced families some assured and sustained earning.
The amount of assistance can also be invested in any annuity scheme, which can give an assured monthly income on sustainable basis.
The scheme will have a State share of Rs 308/- and Central share of Rs. 5,49,692/- per family, amounting to Rs 5,50,000/- per displaced family. 

(subject to actuals)
Eligibility
The Claimant/Head of the Displaced Persons family or his/her successor or heir residing within the State should be part of the overall category of 36,384 families belonging to any of the following categories: "Pakistan occupied Jammu & Kashmir 1947 Displaced Persons", "Chhamb 1965 and 1971 (camp/non-camp) Displaced Persons".
The family must possess the required documents that can prove aforesaid.
Application Process
Offline
For identification of the beneficiaries, the government of J&K may stipulate credible and verifiable documents. The state government will verify the documents and recommend the name of the beneficiaries along with copy of Aadhar card and Aadhar linked bank account number of the beneficiaries to the MHA.
Documents Required
Aadhaar 
Proof of having resided either in PoK or in Chhamb.
Details of Aadhaar Seeded Bank Account.
