Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana
Ministry Of Chemicals And Fertilizers
EntrepreneurGeneric DrugsHealthcareJanaushadhiMedicinePharmaceutical
Details
The scheme "Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP)" was launched by the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, in November 2008. The branded (Generic) medicines are sold at significantly higher prices than their un-branded generic equivalents, though are identical in therapeutic value. Given the widespread poverty across the country, making available reasonably priced quality generic medicines in the market would benefit everyone.
Objectives:
To make quality generic medicines available at affordable prices to all, Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) was launched by the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Government of India in November 2008. Under the scheme, dedicated outlets known as Janaushadhi Kendras are opened to provide generic medicines at affordable prices. As of 30.11.2023, 10,000 Janaushadhi Kendras are functional nationwide. The product basket of PMBJP comprises 1965 drugs and 293 surgical items. The scheme is implemented by a society registered under the Societies Registration Act, viz., Pharma & Medical Bureau of India (PMBI), [erstwhile Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI)].
Ensure access to quality medicines for all sections of the population, especially the poor and the deprived ones.
Create awareness about generic medicines through education and publicity to counter the perception that quality is synonymous with high prices only.
Generate employment by engaging individual entrepreneurs in the opening of the PMBJP Kendra.

Benefits
The scheme is operated by government agencies as well as by private entrepreneurs.
1. Normal Incentive: The incentive provided to the Kendra owners has been enhanced from the existing ₹ 2,50,000/- to up to ₹ 5,00,000/- to be given @ 15% of monthly purchases made, subject to a ceiling of ₹ 15,000/- per month.
2. Special Incentive: A one-time incentive of ₹ 2,00,000/- (in addition to normal incentives) is to be provided for furniture & fixtures and computers & printers to the PMBJP Kendras opened in the North-Eastern States, Himalayan areas, Island territories, and backward areas mentioned as an aspirational district by NITI Aayog or opened by women entrepreneurs, Divyang, SCs& STs.
3. The prices of Janaushadhi medicines are 50%–90% less than those of branded medicines in the open market.
4. Medicines are procured only from World Health Organization-Good Manufacturing Practices (WHO-GMP)-certified suppliers to ensure the quality of the products.
5. Each batch of the drug is tested at laboratories accredited by the ‘National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) to ensure the best quality.
6. The operating agency will be provided a 20% margin on the MRP (excluding taxes) of each drug.

Janaushadhi Suvidha Sanitary Napkin
As an important step in ensuring the health security for Indian women, Janaushadhi Suvidha Oxo-biodegradable Sanitary Napkins were launched on 27.08.2019 to be made available at Re.1/- per pad only. Janaushadhi Suvidha Napkins are being made available for sale in more than 10,000 PMBJP Kendras across the country. The cumulative sales of Suvidha Napkins as on 30.11.2023 is 47.87 crores.
Eligibility
Individual applicants must have a D. Pharma/B. Pharma degree, or he/she has to employ D. Pharma/B. Pharma degree holders and produce proof of the same at the time of submitting applications or at the time of final approval.
Any organization or NGO applying for a PMBJK will have to employ B. Pharma / D. Pharma degree holders and produce proof of the same at the time of submitting applications or at the time of final approval. 
In government hospital premises, including medical colleges, the preferred agencies would be reputed NGOs/Charitable organizations, but individuals would also be eligible.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Visit the official website on : http://janaushadhi.gov.in/index.aspx.
Step 2: Click on the ‘APPLY FOR KENDRA’ Tab.
Step 3: Click on the ‘CLICK HERE TO APPLY’ Tab.
Step 4: Click on the tab ‘REGISTER NOW” and fill in the applicant’s details with a unique Mobile number & Email ID.
Step 5: After successful registration, the applicant will get an email containing a unique ‘USER ID & PASSWORD’ for Portal login   
Step 6: Log in with your USER ID and PASSWORD received or created through the registered email ID 
Step 7: The application processing fee amount must be deposited only in the ﻿PMBI's virtual account.
Step 8: Fill out the application form carefully.
(Basic information with details of application processing fee of Rs. 5,000/- under Govt. Category) & 
(Proposed Kendra Details) and other relevant details.  
Step 9: Upload the documents e.g., PACS ID, Certificate of Incorporation, PAN Card, Aadhaar Card, Bank Statement for 6 months, etc.
Step 10: Each document must be uploaded under a size of 200KB in PDF/JPEG/PNG/JPG format only.
Step 11: Review the filled-out application & click on the final Submit button.
Note: After completing the above steps, the application form has been submitted successfully and confirmation will be shared on the registered email ID of the applicant. The applicant can also check their application status online at any time by login into the same portal or can call us on the helpline number 18001808080. 
Documents Required
Common Documents:
Own space or hired space (minimum 120 sq feet) duly supported by ownership, a proper lease agreement, or a space allotment letter.
Proof of securing a pharmacist with name, Registration with the State Council, etc. (or it can be submitted at the time of final approval of JAS)
Financial capacity to run the Store supported by valid documents or affidavits for having good financial condition and being ready to invest to run Jan Aushadhi Store smoothly as per requirements.
Sale License from Competent Authority (Retail Drug License in the name of the applicant and/or TIN Number)
A drug license in the name of “Pradhan Mantri Janaushadhi Kendra”.

Special Incentive: Individual
1. Aadhaar Card
2. Pan card
3. Certificate of SC/ST or Divyang (PWD).
4. Pharmacist Registration Certification
5. ITR for the last two years.
6. Bank statement for the last 6 months.
7. Declaration for GST registration once the threshold limit is achieved.
8. Undertaking (whichever is applicable):
Woman Entrepreneur
Aspirational District (Identified BY NITI AAYOG) Himalayan/Island Territories/North-Eastern States
Divyaang/ SC/ST
9. Undertaking a distance policy as per guidelines.

Normal Incentive: Individual
1. Aadhaar Card
2. Pan card
3. General category
4. Pharmacist Registration Certification
5. ITR for the last two years.
6. Bank statement for the last 6 months.
7. Declaration for GST registration once the threshold limit is achieved.
9. Undertaking of distance policy as per guideline.

Normal Incentive: Institutions/ NGO/Charitable Institute/ Hospital etc.
1. Darpan ID (Only for NGO) if others please provide supporting documents.
2. Pan card
3. Registration certificate
4. Pharmacist Registration Certification
5. ITR for the last two years.
6. Bank statement for the last 6 months.
7. Declaration for GST registration once the threshold limit is achieved.
9. Undertaking of distance policy as per guideline.

Normal Incentive: Government/ Govt Nominated Agency
1. Details of the Department that has allocated the space, along with supporting documents/ sanction order.
2. Pan card
3. Govt. nominated agency provides supporting documents.
4. Pharmacist Registration Certification
5. ITR for the last two years, if the nominated operating agency is a Pvt. Entity.
6. Bank statement for the last 6 months, if the nominated operating agency is a Pvt. Entity.
7. Declaration for GST registration once the threshold limit is achieved.
9. Undertaking of distance policy as per guideline.
