IASRI Scholarship For M.Sc And Ph.D
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgriculturalIASRIScholarship
Details
The Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute is a premier Institute under Indian Council of Agricultural Research for conducting research and education in the field of agricultural statistics and computer application in agriculture. The Institute has functioned as the Centre of Advanced Studies in Agricultural Statistics and Computer Application from October 12,1983 to March 31,1992 under the aegis of United Nations Development Programme. Subsequently, ICAR established the Centre of Advanced Studies on Agricultural Statistics and Computer Application at the Institute from February 2,1995 as a part of its Human Resource Development Programme. Besides having modern laboratories, up to date library and other infrastructure, the Institute has a dedicated team of qualified and experienced faculty in the field of Agricultural Statistics and Computer Application. The Institute conducts Post Graduate Degree Programmes in collaboration with the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute which has the status of a Deemed University under the University Grants Commission Act. The teaching is organized on the basis of trimester system. An Academic Session consists of three trimesters, each consisting of nearly twelve weeks duration. The programme of studies at the Institute includes

a) M.Sc. (Agricultural Statistics)
b) M.Sc. (Computer Application)
c) Ph.D. (Agricultural Statistics)

The alumni of the Institute have served/are occupying important positions in various prestigious institutions/universities in India and abroad

M.Sc. Degree Course
The admission to M.Sc. programme is through All India Combined Competitive Examination conducted by the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). On the basis of the merit the ICAR finalizes the admission. 

Benefits
Institute Scholarships / Fellowships
Scholarships are offered to all admitted students. An M.Sc. student is granted a scholarship/fellowship of value Rs.7,500/- p.m. In addition to this, M.Sc. students have a contingent grant of Rs.6,000/- per annum, for meeting out the expenditure on study tours, experimental material, purchase of books and preparation of the thesis, etc. 
Eligibility
Eligibility requirements for M.Sc. (Agricultural Statistics)
Bachelor of Science degree in Agriculture / Horticulture / Forestry / Agroforestry / Sericulture / Agricultural Marketing/ B.Sc.(10+2+3 System) with 60% marks or its equivalent Overall grade point average (OGPA) for the general category, and 55% marks or its equivalent OGPA for SC/ST/PH candidates.

The minimum residential requirement for both M.Sc. degrees is 2 academic years from the date of admission. The maximum time limit for completion of the M.Sc. programme of studies is 4 years from the date of admission. However, a M.Sc. student from the Agricultural stream takes 2 years and from a nonagricultural stream 3 years to complete the programme of studies.

The minimum age limit for admission to M.Sc. is 19 years. The age shall be reckoned as 31st July of the year of admission.

Admission of Foreign Students 
i) Foreign students seeking admission shall forward their applications through their respective Embassies / Missions at New Delhi or through the respective Indian Missions abroad to the Government of India / Secretary, DARE, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi -110 001 and their candidatures shall be considered only if they are sponsored by the Government of India / DARE / ICAR.

ii) Eligibility: Foreign students are exempted from appearing in the written test and interview. Admission shall be made on the scrutiny of the biodata and on the recommendations of the Professor of the concerned discipline
Application Process
Online
STEP 1: Type "http://pgs.iasri.res.in" on your browser and hit enter (Best viewed on Google Chrome) and click on "Filling up of Application Form and Uploading of Required Documents Online for M.Sc./M.Tech. and Ph.D. degree programme under Different Schemes for the academic session".
STEP 2: Click on “Register Here” button on the right side of the homepage.
STEP 3: Fill up the required details in the textbox on the page shown above and click on “Register” button.
STEP 4: After successful registration, click on “Login” button and enter your email ID and password you entered in Step 3 above. Change the password after the first login.
STEP 5: After successful login, a page will open with multiple text & dropdown fields.
STEP 6: Select your Admission Scheme from the “Scheme” dropdown. Fill-up all the other details as required and also fill the contact details: Then click on “Save and Next” button.
STEP 7: After clicking save and next, a new page will open in which Education Details have to be filled. After filling all the required details, click on “Save and Next” button to proceed further.
STEP 8: After successfully filling the education details, Upload Image, Signature and Documents Page will open, Here the applicant needs to upload his/her photo on “Image Upload” button, Click on “Choose File” and upload your photograph. The candidate's photograph should be less than 100 kb and greater than 10 kb. After uploading photograph, the candidate has to upload his/her signature. Here the applicant needs to upload his/ her signature on “Signature Upload” button below. The candidate's signature has to be less than 20 kb and greater than 10 kb. The Candidate has to upload all the requisite documents starting from Matriculation to Qualifying Degree Examination.
STEP 9: After uploading the photo signature and documents, click on "upload" button. After successful upload, a message will appear "Upload status: Images uploaded!". Click on “Next” button on the right side of the same page.
STEP 10: After clicking “Next” button, a page asking for Payment Details will appear. Here you will enter the Online Transaction details (UTR No.) of the application fee for the M.Sc./M.Tech. and Ph.D. degree programme under Different Schemes for the academic session 2021-22. Application Fee (nonrefundable) is Rs. 400 (Rupees Four Hundred only) for all Schemes/Categories. After filling all the necessary details, click on “Save and Next” button.
STEP 11: After clicking “Save and Next” button, preview of your application will appear. Here you can review all your details that have been filled. After checking all the details check the declaration checkbox on the bottom of the page. After checking the check box, a Final Submit button will appear below the checked box Click on button. After clicking on Final Submit button, an alert window will open asking for confirmation for submission. Click on “OK” to submit your application.
STEP 12: After clicking “OK” a page with application form will open Click on “Print” to print the form.
STEP 13: After successful submission, the candidate should take a printout of the online submitted Application Form for future reference.
STEP 14: Please note that Application Fee shall be submitted ONLINE only as per the Payment Details uploaded on the Portal.
STEP 15: In order to avoid last minute rush, the candidates are advised to apply early enough. The IARI will not be responsible for network problems in filling up/uploading of required documents and final submission of the application form online or any other problems of this nature in submission of the online application form during last days
Documents Required
Required Documents :
Upload Image ( less than 100 kb and greater than10 kb).
Signature (less than 20 kb and greater than 10 kb).
Documents (All the requisite documents starting from Matriculation to Qualifying Degree Examination).
