Capacity Building For Service Providers - Skill Testing & Certification
Ministry Of Tourism
EmploymentSkillTourismTraining
Details
The scheme "Skill Testing & Certification" is a Suo-Moto Sub-Category of Programmes under the Umbrella Scheme of "Capacity Building for Service Providers", Ministry of Tourism. In this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the to conduct Skilling (Capacity Building) and Re-Skilling (Capacity Enhancement) Programmes. In this scheme, education, training, and certification is provided to tourism service providers at every level through the CBSP Scheme. 

The main objectives of this initiative are to train and up-grade manpower at every stratum of service in order to - 
i) capitalize on the vast tourism potential of the country to the fullest.
ii) provide professional expertise to the local populace as well as create fresh opportunities for employment generation in the tourism sector both in urban as well as rural areas.

Implementing Agencies - 
Ministry of Tourism, India Tourism Offices, Institutes of Hotel Management and Food Craft Institutes including such institutes approved by the AICTE, Indian Institute of Tourism & Travel Management, NCHMCT, Tourism Departments of State / UT Governments, State Tourism Development Corporations, India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), State/Central Training/academic Institutions and the academic & skill Training Institutes/registered organizations/entities in the private sector engaged in providing training in the hospitality and Tourism sector.

Benefits
Benefits to the Institute - 
The administrative expenses incurred by the implementing agencies towards organizing the training programmes under the guide training and other sectoral programmes (including tourism awareness programmes) shall be met by the MoT to the extent of 5% of the total estimated sanctioned training cost for a training confined to one city and 
@10% for training involving more than one city.

Benefits to the Trainer - 
₹ 1500/- for guest faculty- for a class of 60 minutes duration.
₹ 750/- for faculty/staff of Implementing Agency - for a session (of one-hour duration) subject to a ceiling of up to 30 days or 60 sessions in a year, whichever is lower.
₹ 400/- for a student-trainer who provides training for a two-hour class.
Expenses on meals for trainers/trainees - Rs.100/- per person per day.
Note: Honoraria to the trainers should not exceed the amount prescribed in the scheme and should be within the overall cost of the programme.

Benefits to the Trainee - 
For fresh entrants to the job market, the training duration is to be a minimum of 200 hours (including practical and/or on-the-job training) except where prescribed by any Statute.
Certificates should be provided to the trainees who have undergone the training by the concerned agency.
In order to ensure optimum use of institutional infrastructure, as also to attract service providers, the training classes shall preferably be organized in the evenings and on public holidays. 
The money paid as Stipend to the successful trainee shall be transferred only to the individual beneficiary’s Aadhar-linked bank account through the PFMS.

List of the Nature of Training - 
Health & Personal Hygiene, Cleanliness, Basic Service techniques. Cooking Techniques, Garbage Disposal, Etiquette and basic manners, and basic nutrition values. Energy saving and nutrition saving techniques. Basic tourism awareness. Presentation and Communication skills, Behaviour Skills, First Aid, handling of accidents, Client Handling & Behaviour Skills, Sensitization to HIV/AIDS, Skill Development in general for fresh candidates, Specialised skill development, 
including language courses for fresh as well as existing service providers, Awareness Programmes, Basic Skill upgradation in general for existing service providers, Tourist police training programmes Training of Trainers programmes. Developing skills in product presentation in rural tourism. This list is only illustrative and not exhaustive.

List of the Training Programmes - 
Bearers, bartenders, Cooks, stewards, Receptionists, Information Providers, Drivers, Govt. Staff who come in contact with tourists, Supervisors, Guides, Travel Assistants, Managers for small Hotels, Bakers & Confectioners, Catering staff, Meal Providers, Tour Escort/assistants, Reservation and ticketing assistants, Housekeepers, Event management supervisors, Hospital housekeepers, Interior designers, Florist, Tourism Staff of Central and State Departments, Tourism facility Planners and management staff, Guides, Tourism facilitator/runner, Foreign language interpreters, Naturalists, rural artisans/craftsmen/entertainers, tourist police, teachers, administrators and planners etc. This list is only illustrative and not exhaustive
Eligibility
For the Trainee (before enrolment) - 
The applicant should have passed Class 8th.
The applicant should be above the age of 18 years.

For the Trainee (after enrolment) - 
To ensure that training are viewed seriously, a trainee must attend 80% of the classes/periods to become eligible for a certificate/ for appearing in the end-of-the-course test.

Note 1: The batch size of all programs/courses requiring hands-on/practical training should ideally comprise 20 persons
Note 2: The selection of trainees is to be done in a transparent manner and the same trainee or person should not be selected again.
Note 3: The students and trainers to be enrolled must be linked to Aadhar in the Implementing Agency’s records as well as the individual’s Banks account. 

Reservation / Priority / Preference
While selecting candidates, it should be ensured that the majority of the trainees are from the unorganized sector.
Priority should be given to candidates from roadside food outlets/dhabas/kiosks at tourist destinations etc. 
While selecting candidates from rural areas preference would be given to artisans, craftsmen/women engaged in eco-tourism, etc. 
Application Process
Offline
For the Trainee - 
Step 1: Eligible candidates can obtain application forms from the Institute office or from Institute's Website. 
Step 2: The applicant should submit the duly filled application form along with all the documents and application fees.

For the Implementing Agency (Institute) - 
The Implementing agency will send the proposal in the prescribed format, along with the required documents to the Ministry of Tourism.
Documents Required
For the Trainee - 
Proof of Identity
Proof of Residence
Proof of Age
Marksheet of Class 8th or Higher Educational Qualification
Aadhaar Card
Passport Sized Photograph
Details of the Aadhaar-Linked Bank Account

For the Implementing Agency (Institute) (before approval) - 
The Proposal
Calendar of Training Programmes.

For the Implementing Agency (Institute) (after approval) - 
Accounts for all training courses organized by the implementing agency & Utilization Certificates of funds.
Record of Trainees: Persons trained / trainees are maintained by all agencies giving the following information for each Batch of trainees, Name, Address, Age, SC/ST/OBC, and Nature of Work.
Register of Training Programmes: Date & Duration of Programme, Location of Training Camp, Type of Training provided, No. of Trainees, Name of Trainers/Resource Person, Brief write-up, Expenditure.
Quarterly Progress Report to MoT indicating Physical and Financial Performance.
Digital Feedback / Manual Feedback taken from the participants at the conclusion of each tourism awareness programme.
A video clipping and a clear photograph showing the training session with trainees on the e-mail address of the Programme Monitoring Unit (Skill Development) (pmuhsrt@gmail.com).
