Gopabandhu Sikhya Sahayata Yojana
Odisha
Financial AssistanceScholarship
Details
"Gopabandhu Sikhya Sahayata Yojana" is a Financial Assistance Scheme launched by the Higher Education Dept., Govt. of Odisha. The scheme was launched as an endeavor to make higher education inclusive and to increase the gross enrollment ratio. The scheme aims to further widen the access to higher education to the students belonging to under privileged sections of society, which in turn shall benefit immensely the students of said strata of society. The objective of the scheme is to extend financial assistance to the students of under privileged sections for pursuing Graduation and Post-Graduation courses in the State of Odisha on an annual basis. It is anticipated that the scheme will lead to their access to higher education. The assistance will be offered on means basis to General, OBC, SC/ST, SEBC/EBC category students. The selected students will receive financial assistance of ₹ 20,000 per annum.

Benefits
The annual Financial assistance will be ₹ 20,000/- for pursuing both Graduate and Post Graduate courses.
The student can avail of financial assistance under this scheme even if the student is in receipt of financial assistance under other schemes.
The financial assistance shall be limited to the normal duration of the course and will be given each year till the completion of the course.
Eligibility
1) The student should belong to any of the following categories of families:
a) HIV/AIDS-affected family (either father or mother or both).
b) Households Without Shelter.
c) Destitute / Living on Alms.
d) Manual Scavengers.
c)     Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups.
f) Legally released Bonded Labourers.
g) Single Mother Family (a mother who has a dependent child or dependent children and who is widowed, divorced, or unmarried).
2) He/ She should be a Permanent Resident of Odisha.
3) The student should have been enrolled for graduate/postgraduate courses ((Non-Technical/Technical/Professional) on a regular mode from the Colleges/ Institutes/ Universities in the State of Odisha recognized by the State Government.
4) The income of the household from all sources should be less than ₹ 10,000/- per month.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/
Step 2: Click on "Registration".
Step 3: Read the Instructions/Declaration carefully. 
Step 4: Select the Checkbox and Click "I Agree".
Step 5: On the next page, provide your Aadhaar Number, Mobile Number, and all the mandatory fields: Name, Gender, Date of Birth, and Email ID. Click "Register".

You will be successfully registered on the portal. Your login details will be displayed on the confirmation page.
Your login credentials will also be sent to the registered Mobile Number and Email ID.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/. Click "Login". Now click on "Student Login". Login using the credentials received on your Email ID / Mobile Number.
Step 2: Click on the "Schemes And Scholarship" section. Optionally, you can check your eligibility for the scheme by clicking "View Eligibility". Else click "Online Application Module For Scholarship And Loan". 
Step 3: Select "Gopabandhu Sikhya Sahayata Yojana" from the dropdown menu. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the said file type and filesize.
Step 4: Click "Submit". Take two printed hard copies of the online application along with relevant documents, and submit the same to the Principal/ Head of the Institution for further processing.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph of the student
Aadhaar Card of Student
College ID Card of the Student
Resident Certificate.
Income Certificate of the Parent / Guardian.
Medical Certificate from the concerned Medical Officer regarding suffering from HIV/A1DS, if required.
Certificate relating to Households without Shelter from the Competent Revenue Authority, if required.
Certificate towards being a Single Mother from District Social Welfare Officer, if required.
Certificate of being a Destitute / Living-on-Alms from the local Sarpanch /  Urban Local Body authority, if required.
Certificate of being a Manual Scavenger from the Competent Authority, if required.
Certificate of being from a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group from the District Welfare Officer if required.
Certificate of being a Legally Released Bonded Labourer from the District Welfare Officer/ District Labour Officer/ any competent authority if required.
Bank Passbook of the Student (Name of the Student, Bank Account No. & IFSC Code must be mentioned on the copy of the passbook.)
