Kushal Yuva Program
Bihar
SkillTraining
Details
The scheme "Kushal Yuva Program (KYP)" is a skill training programme launched by the Bihar Skill Development Mission (BSDM). It is a part of one of the "7 Nishchay" schemes of the Government of Bihar. The objective of KYP is to which would enhance the employability skills of all aspirants who are permanent residents of Bihar and have passed at least Class 10th. The Soft Skills Training comprises Life skills, Communications Skills (English & Hindi), and Basic Computer Literacy. The training would enhance their employability. The applicant should be in the age group of 15-28 years (relaxations for ST/SC/OBC/PwD. The applicant should not have any employment or self-employment.

The strategy is to address the following four major challenges in the skill development ecosystem:

Capacity: Increase in Training Capacity
Minimum One Skill Development Centre (Sdc) in Each of the 534 Blocks for Imparting Training in Soft Skills.
A Strong Pool of Certified Trainers Will Be Developed Through a Mandatory Trainersonline Certification (Oncet) Programme.

Access: Increase in Access
Sdc at Each Block Would Mean Getting Training Centre to the Doorstep of the Youth.
State Wide Social Mobilization Campaign Would Help Increase the Awareness Which in-turn Will Result in Higher Access / Participation
District Registration Cum Counselling Centres at the District Level Will Provide the Requisite Guidance to the Youth to Access the Benefits of Such a Programme

Relevance: High Relevance
Package of Life Skills, Communications Skills (English & Hindi) and Basic Computer Literacy Will Increase the Employability of Youth
It Will Help in Smooth Shift From Homes to Places With High Employment Potential
Increase Retention at Workplace

Perception: the Following Would Improve the Perception
Qualified, Experienced and Certified Trainers
Use of High Quality Content and E-learning Mode

Benefits
The course curriculum for Kushal Yuva Program would include three components: Life skills, Communications Skills (English & Hindi), and Basic computer literacy. The course duration covering all three components would be 240 hours (Life Skills for 40 hours, Communication Skills for 80 hours and Basic computer literacy component would be covered in approx. 120 hours).
E-Learning mode shall be used for training delivery.
Assessment (post self-learning and mock tests) of Trainers (Oncet) followed by certification will be carried out to get quality trainers and maintain uniformity across centers. It would be the prime responsibility of the Skill Development Centre (SDC) to ensure that each trainer deployed by it undergoes the OnCET test. Only the certified trainers passing the assessment will be eligible for imparting training.
It is preferable to have a trainer who has passed the KYP Course and is having educational qualification of a minimum 12th pass unless he has a higher Degree / Diploma in Computer Science.
A sequential mode of learning is provided for prohibiting any skipping of sessions.
Central monitoring of step by step progress of each candidate through the web portal.
Inbuilt / Integrated online Assessment & Certification process.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a resident of the state of Bihar.
The applicant must be in the age group of 15-28 years (Relaxation:- SC/ST: 33 years; OBC: 31 years: PwD: 33 years).
The applicant must have passed Class 10th (irrespective of the fact that the candidate is pursuing /completed any Higher Education Course/Degree).
Apart from the above all those youth of 20-25 age group who have opted for and have been sanctioned for self-help allowance, have to compulsorily complete this training.
Application Process
Online
New Registration

Step 1: Visit the Official Website. In the Right Pane, click "New Applicant Registration".
You will be redirected to the Registration Form.

Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory fields: Applicant needs to provide the mandatory details. Your Email ID and Mobile Number will be verified via OTP. Click "Submit".

Step 3: Upon successful submission, a confirmation message will be displayed. The applicant will also receive a confirmation mail on their Email ID and SMS on their Mobile Number, mentioning their Login Credentials. 

Step 4: Visit the Official Website. Login using your Username and Password. You will be directed to change your password. Do the same and click "Submit". Upon successful change of password, the following message will be displayed "Password Changed/Reset Successfully".

Application

Step 1: Visit the Official Website. Login using your username and the new password. You will be directed to the Application Form.

Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details: Personal Information, Educational Details, Permanent Address, and Residential Address. Upload the mandatory documents (as per the said File Format and File Size), and click "Submit". The following message will be displayed: "Your details have been added successfully".

Step 3: You will be directed to "Select a Scheme to Apply". Select "Kushal Yuva Program" from the drop-down menu, and fill in your "Training Location Preferences".

Step 4: Read the Declaration carefully, and then select the Declaration Checkbox. Click "Save as Draft" to save/review your application, else click "Submit" to submit your application.

Step 5: A confirmation message showing your Registration ID will be displayed. Save this Registration ID for future reference. There will be an option to download/print the acknowledgment of successful receipt of the submission. The acknowledgment will also be mailed to the applicant on the registered Email ID.

Step 6: Take print of the acknowledgment. Fill in the mandatory fields. Attach the self-attested documents. Submit the same at your nearest DRCC Office.

Step 7: You will be provided with a receipt, post the document verification. The receipt can be used for admission into the Kushal Yuva Training Center.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number / Aadhaar Enrolment ID
Domicile Certificate / Residential Proof of the state of Bihar
Passing Certificate of Class 10th
Proof of Identity (Ration Card / Election Voter ID Card)
Proof of Age/DOB (Birth Certificate)
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account
Passport Sized Photograph
