Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Outstanding Performance in Sports and Games for the Year
Odisha
GamesSports AwardSportsperson
Details
The “Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Outstanding Performance in Sports and Games for the Year” is a category of award under the “Biju Patnaik Sports Award" Scheme. The scheme was launched by the Sports & Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to commemorate the yeoman service of late Biju Patnaik, the ex-Chief Minister of Odisha, towards the development of Sports & Games in the State by conferring the highest honour of the Government of Odisha in the field of Sports in his name. The award is given to the sportspersons of Odisha who have achieved outstanding performance in any of the recognized sports during the year making the State of Odisha and India proud.
Objective:
1. To encourage the development of Sports and Games in the State.
2. To honour meritorious sportspersons who have made the State Proud.
3. To inspire and motivate young talents to excel in sports and games by emulating the seniors.
Sports Discipline: The sports disciplines recognized by the International Olympic Committee (I.O.C.), Indian Olympic Association (I.O.A.), Government of India (G.O.I.), Sports Authority of India (S.A.I.) and Government of Odisha (G.O.O.) including Sports Event for Persons with Disability.

Benefits
The award shall be presented every year subject to the availability of a suitable candidate, which will carry a cash award of ₹2,00,000/-.
A statue, a scroll of honour, and a blazer with a tie shall be given along with all the Cash Awards.
The Awardees shall be invited to receive the awards in person. They shall be given T.A. and D.A. at the rate admissible to a Grade 'A' Officer.
Note 01: Canvassing for the award in any form is prohibited.
Note 02: The award can also be given posthumously to the next of kin of the awardee.
Note 03: In case of selection of more than one person for an award, the award money will be shared amongst the awardees.
Note 04: It will not be binding on the Department of Sports & Youth Services to confer the award every year. In case of non-availability of suitable persons for the award, the award shall not be given for the respective year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the State of Odisha or shall be staying at least for a period not less than 07 years.
To be eligible for this award, a sportsperson of Odisha must have achieved outstanding performance in any of the recognized sports during the year making the State of Odisha and India proud.
The applicant should not have been convicted of any criminal offence.
The award will be conferred on a person only once in his/her lifetime, pertaining to the concerned category.
Persons found positive for use of drugs/banned substances for performance enhancement, will not be eligible for this Award.
Note: The award can be given posthumously to the next of kin of the selected sportsperson.
Annulment Cancellation of Award:
The Award may be cancelled in case it is found that it has been obtained by fraudulent means.
In such event, the concerned person shall be asked to refund the award failing which steps will be taken to recover the involved cost from him/her with simple interest @ 5% per annum.
Application Process
Offline
Application process:
Step 01: Advertisement for the award shall be uploaded every year in January on the Department Website with the prescribed format for the application.
Step 02: The applicants can download the application form from the official website or collect it from the office of District Collector, DSOs, SPs, NYKS, Odisha Council of Sports and Sports & Youth Services Department.
Step 03: Fill in the all necessary details in the application form and attach all the relevant documents. 
Step 04: The application forms can be sent by the Collector, SP, DSO, NYKS concerned Sports Association, the person himself/herself or Odisha Council of Sports to the Sports & Youth Services Department.
Note 01: The Department of Sports and Youth Services also reserves the right to suo moto nominate names for the award.
Note 02: The application form and all supporting documents must be self-attested by the applicant, i.e. there is no need for attestation by any Gazetted officer.
Scrutiny of Application:
The Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department will constitute a five-member scrutiny Committee comprising senior officials and coaches of the Department with Director-cum-Addl. Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department or the senior most officer of the Department as head of the Committee to scrutinize all the applications and place the scrutiny result before the selection committee for consideration.
Selection Procedure: 
An eight-member Selection Committee will be constituted by Govt. under the chairmanship of the Secretary, Sports and Youth Services Department for the selection of awardees.
The Selection Committee shall examine the scrutinized nominations/ applications and recommend names for each award for approval of Government at the level of Hon'ble Minister, Sports & Youth Services.
Timeline for the Award:
Invitation of application through issue of Advertisement: By 31st January.
Last date for receipt of applications: By 31st March
Scrutiny and Selection: By 31st May
Award Ceremony: 29th August (National Sports Day)
Documents Required
Identity proof
Three Passport size photographs
Proof of Residence 
Performance in detail in the field of Sports & Games (self-attested photocopies of certificates and testimonials should be attached including State/National/International participation)
Disability Certificate, (If applicable)
Adequate documentary evidence in support of the claim for the award
