AICTE-ISTE INDUCTION/REFRESHER PROGRAMME SCHEME
Ministry of Education
AICTEPedagogical SkillsSkill DevelopmentTechnical EducationTraining
Details
AICTE-ISTE Induction/ Refresher Programme has been launched by the All India Council for Technical Education with an intention to provide financial assistance to AICTE approved institutions/universities in conducting training for the teaching faculties working in technical institutions.

Objectives:
The AICTE-ISTE Induction/Refresher Programme are essential for teachers in technical institutions for their professional refinement. The other aims for the conduct of these Programme are:
Updating knowledge and improving organizational and pedagogical skills of teachers.
To update the knowledge by providing an opportunity for interaction and mutual exchange of ideas between teachers interested and/or working in particular areas of specialization.
Providing an opportunity for teachers to familiarize themselves with modern engineering practices, including the latest technological advances adopted by industry keeping in view the national needs and priorities and relevant technologies.
Opening up before teacher’s new vistas in technology at the frontier of knowledge and the challenges and opportunities which provide to the dedicated and hard working.

Type of Training
Induction Training.
Refresher Training.

Duration of Programme
The duration of the Programme shall be one week (six working days).

Benefits
Funding to the  institution/University: ₹ 3,00,000/-
Eligibility
AICTE approved institutions/University departments imparting technical education.
Coordinator must be a full time regular faculty with adequate experience in teaching and research with publications.
Maximum 2 proposals per institute would be considered in a year. 
Preferably one self-financing program should have been arranged in last 12 months by the college.
ISTE will charge ₹1,500/- per proposal as processing fee. The proposals will be accepted only if institute pays the processing fee through RTGS/NEF
Application Process
Online
Registration of New Institute:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicte-india.org/partnerportal_enu/start.swe and click on 'New Institute' button.
Step 02: Users will be redirected to another website. Hover the cursor on Login and select ‘Investor Login’.
Step 03: New users need to click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.
Step 04: Enter the details and click on ‘Verify’ to receive OTP on your Email Id and Mobile Number.
Step 05: After successful verification Click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.

Post-Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicte-india.org/partnerportal_enu/start.swe and log in with the credentials provided by AICTE.
Step 02: Navigate to AQIS Application Screen by clicking on ‘AQIS Application’ screen tab.
Step 03: Institute details will auto populate in the AQIS Application.
Step 04: Fill demographic and Bank details .
Step 05: Only after confirming the Bank Details, the 'New' button will be enabled for adding the AQIS Application. Click on 'New' button to create AQIS Application.
Step 06: A unique AQIS Application ID will get created. Select the "AICTE-ISTE INDUCTION/REFRESHER PROGRAMME SCHEME" as Scheme from the drop down List.
Step 07: Now details to be filled for the as followed: Program Details, Personalities Expected, Participating Industries ,Similar Events, Budget Estimate -Others, Academic Credentials of Coordinator/ PI/ Applicant, Justification, Credential of Institute / Department.
Step 07: Once the user has filled all the data in the above mentioned tab, user should click on ‘Validate Application’ button on the ‘AQIS Application’ tab.
Step 08: User will get a pop up message to attach a Mandate Form after downloading the sample form.
Step 09: Now fill the amount in the ‘Total Funds Requested’ under label ‘Budget Estimates Others’.
Step 10: After Validation is completed successfully, read the declaration, check it and click on Save.
Step 10: Click on “Submit” button to submit the application.
Documents Required
Offer letter of ISTE for conduct of the Programme
An acceptance letter by the institute in response to the offer letter
Detailed schedule of training Programme
List of resource persons invited with full address, contact details, topics etc.
List of participants attended the Programme
Copy of question paper and participant's performance for the test conducted.
Minimum five shotogranhs and Pen drive/CD of selected sessions.
List of participants
Feedback of the participants with signatures
Photographs of the conducted event (05 Nos)
Supporting bills/documents and paid vouchers on account of expenses incurred for the purpose.
Two hard copies of proceedings in bound form
The above documents should be counter signed by the Coordinator.
A copy of question papers
A cody of result of the test conducted

Note: The University/Institution should submit the documents necessary for release of the 1st installment within 15 days of receipt of the Offer Letter and documents necessary for release of 2nd installment latest by the end of one month of conduct of the event.
