Reimbursement of membership Fee in Government promoted E-Commerce Portals
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
BusinessEntrepreneurshipFinancial Assistance
Details
Reimbursement of Membership fee of Government promoted e-commerce portals Scheme is a sub scheme under National Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Hub (NSSH) scheme. The component has provision for reimbursement of Annual Membership / Subscription fee of Government promoted e-commerce portals such as GeM, e-khadi, Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED), Tribes India, MSME Mart, etc. to SC/ST Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs).

Benefits
The financial assistance may be provided 80% or a maximum of ₹ 25,000/- (excluding applicable taxes) whichever is less, per financial year for new as well as renewals for SC/ST MSE.
Eligibility
Applicant should belong to Scheduled Caste(SC) / Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. 
He/She should represent any Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs).
Application Process
Online
Applicant need to visit the official website https://www.scsthub.in.
For registration click on sign-up and provide the following details 
Full Name
Valid Email ID
Mobile Number
Password and confirm password
For login click on login.
After login complete the required information. 
Documents Required
Self-certified copy of Udyam Registration (UR).
Self-certified copy of PAN card - in case of proprietorship, PAN card of SC/ST proprietor ought to be submitted.
Copy of Caste Certificate of all promoters.
Cancelled Cheque of the current account of the enterprise from which the EPC membership fee has been debited.
Proof of transferred amount as reimbursement by NSSHO/ NSIC through PFMS under the scheme, where any such assistance is availed earlier with in the same financial year.
Details of shareholding in case of partnership / Pvt. Ltd / LLP firm. In case of partnership concerns, shareholding of the enterprise would be required to ascertain status of the MSE as SC/ST MSE (shareholding of SC/ST entrepreneur to be > 51%). Attested copy of Partnership Deed for Partnership Firm / Memorandum and Article of Association in case of LLP/Private Limited Company are required.
Attested copy of valid membership/registration certificate issued from e-commerce portal along with the copy of receipt of amount paid for membership.
