Financial Assistance to Old Age Pensioner Suffering From TB/ Cancer
Puducherry
CancerFinancial AsisstancePensionSenior CitizenTB
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Old Age Pensioner Suffering From TB/ Cancer” by the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Puducherry, was introduced to extend a helping hand by way of a monthly financial assistance of ₹ 500/- to Old Age/Destitute Pensioners who are suffering from TB/Cancer to meet out the medical expenses.

Benefits
₹500/- per month in addition to the old age pension amount.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The applicant should be a Old Age Pensioner or a Destitute Pensioner.
The applicant should be suffering from T.B./Cancer.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Passport-sized Photograph.
Declaration/undertaking (if Any).
Medical Certificate From the Medical Authority of the Government Hospital or Institution.
Photocopy of the Old Age Pension Book.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
