Financial Assistance to Scheduled Castes for Funeral Rites
Puducherry
DeathFamilyFinancial AssistanceFuneralScheduled Caste
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Scheduled Castes for Funeral Rites” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the Scheduled Caste family for performing funeral rites of their deceased family member in order to get rid of the immediate hardship.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹ 10,000/-.
Eligibility
The deceased should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a close relative of the deceased.
The annual family income should be less than ₹ 2,00,000/-.
The family members of the deceased should belong to the Union Territory of Puducherry by virtue of nativity or continuous residence of 3 years.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 2: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, click "Register a New Membership".
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields: Username, Password, Confirm Password, Personal Details (Full Name, First Name, Email Address, Address, Current Address, Gender, Date of Birth, Mobile Number). Agree to the declaration. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Signup".
Step 4: Visit the Official Website of the e-District Portal of the Government of Puducherry.
Step 5: At the top right corner of the home page, click "Login". In the login screen, provide your Username and Password, fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Sign In".
Step 6: On the next screen, a list of schemes by the Government of Puducherry will be displayed Department-wise.
Step 7: Click on the scheme you wish to apply for. You will be taken to its online application form.
Step 8: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a red asterisk) and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required). 
Step 9: Tick the declaration stating "I hereby declare that the above-mentioned details are true and correct as per the best of my Knowledge". Submit the application and note the application number for tracking your application. The application number will also be received on your Registered Mobile Number / Registered Email ID.
*Track Your Application here
* Access the User Manual for Online Application here
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate.
Aadhaar Card of the Deceased.
Aadhaar Card of the Applicant.
Caste Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Ration Card.
Burial Certificate.
Death Certificate.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph of the Applicant.
Voter Card.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
