West Bengal Freeship Scheme
West Bengal
ArchitectureEngineering & TechnologyFinancial SupportFreeshipPharmacyTuition Fee Waiver
Details
The West Bengal Freeship Scheme (WBFS) has been introduced from the year 2011 by the Department of Higher Education, Government of West Bengal. WBFS is for the under Graduate students level in Engineering & Technology/ Pharmacy/ Architecture programmes conducted by the self financing private Engineering and Technical Institutions of the State. The waiver is limited to the tuition fee for all the institutions concerned. All other fees except tuition fees will have to be borne by the beneficiary.

Benefits
Benefits: Waiver for tuition fee.
Eligibility
Candidate must be domicile of the West Bengal.
Merit rank in State Level/NationaI Level Entrance Examination.
Annual family income of the candidate must not be more than ₹ 2,50,000 /-.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Visit West Bengal Freeship Scheme portal: https://wbhed.gov.in/wbfs/ 
Click on “How to Apply” on menu bar.
Read the instructions carefully, after that click on the checkbox to agree terms and then "Proceed for Registration".
After proceed, the Registration form will be opened. Fill up the registration formand click on “Submit” button.
Now set and confirm a password after filling all the details very carefully.
On clicking the "Submit Registration" button OTP will be sent to the given mobile number for authentication. After successful OTP verification the WBFS registration process will be completed.
After successful registration, an Applicant Id will be generated and the same will be sent to the registered email id.

Post-Registration Process:
Visit West Bengal Freeship Scheme portal: https://wbhed.gov.in/wbfs/ 
Now at home page Applicant Login section, enter the Applicant Id, Password(Which was setduring registration process), Security Code and then click on the "Login" button.
After successful login, Dashboard of the concerned applicant will be appeared. Click on "Edit Profile" or "Edit Application" to continue the application process.
First fill up the Basic Details form and then click on "Save & Continue" button. Star (*) marked fields are mandatory fields.
Now, Personal Details form will appear after successful submission of Basic Details. Fill up the form and then click on "Save & Continue" button.
After successful submission of Personal Details form, Scanned Supporting Documents form will be appeared. Upload all the necessary documents as required and then click on "Submit Profile" button. While uploading the documents, please maintain the File Format and File Size as instructed in the form.
After successful submission of the Application, a success message regarding the submission will be displayed. Applicants may download the Application details by clicking on the "Download Profile" button.
Click on "Final Submit" Application button to complete the application Process.
To view the Profile/Application, click on "View Profile" option in Dashboard or click on "View Application" option under Application Details tab in Menu area.
Note: After final submission there is no option to modify the online application form.
Documents Required
Photograph of Applicant (Image Size: 20KB-50KB, Image Format: JPG/JPEG).
Signature of Applicant (Signature Size: 10KB-20KB, Signature Format: JPG/JPEG)
Marksheet Of (10+2)th Std. Examination (File Size: 400KB, Image Format: PDF).
Merit Rank Card (File Size: 400KB, Image Format: PDF).
Domicile Certificate (File Size: 400KB, Image Format: PDF).
Income Certificate of Family (File Size: 400KB, Image Format: PDF).

Competent authority to issue Income Certificate:
For the purpose of determining the Annual Income of the parents/ guardians of the students, an officer of the State Government in the rank of Joint Block Developer Officer or above in the district/ their equivalent counterparts (Group-A Officer) elsewhere will be competent to issue Income Certificate.

Competent authority to issue Domicile Certificate in the prescribed Proforma in any one of A or B which is applicable:

District Magistrate, Additional District Magistrate, Deputy Magistrate, Deputy Collector, Sub-Divisional Officer, Block Development Officer.
Superintendent of Police, Additional Superintendent of Police, Sub-Divisional Police Officer, Deputy Superintendent of Police.
Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner of Police Commissionerate.
Judicial Magistrate of any rank or position in the concerned district or Metropolitan locality or Hon'ble High Court at Calcutta or Hon'ble Supreme Court of India.
Corporate Area Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner.
Assistant Secretary or above in the Secretariat to the Government of West Bengal (including GTA) or Central Government.
Deputy Director or above in the Directorate to the Government of West Bengal or Central Government.
