Tuber Crops Potato, Tapioca, Colocasia
Meghalaya
AgricultureColocasiaFarmerHorticulturePotatoSubsidyTapiocaTuber Crops
Details
The scheme “Tuber Crops (Potato, Tapioca, Colocasia) Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to boost up production and productivity of potato per unit area by providing quality HYV seeds, and equipment at 50% subsidy. The Scheme also aims to popularise and encourage the cultivation of tapioca, colocasia, sweet potato, etc.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Supply of HYV seeds, pesticides, and sprayers to farmers for sale at a 50% subsidy.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Sl. No. Entitlement Owantum of Assistance
1 To boost up the production of potato by providing quality HYV seed, organic-based plant protection measures, and P.P equipment. 50% sale to the farmers.
2 For the potato seed experimental farm Upper Shillong, all inputs are provided for the purpose of multiplication of Breeder seed into foundation seed potato before distribution to a farmer. NA
Eligibility
The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in Agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 0.2 (hectares) or more.
Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
Bonafide farmers on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact:
1. District Horticulture Officer
2. Horticulture Development Officer
Documents Required
1. Passport-size photograph
2. Identity Proof
3. Bank passbook/account details
4. Documents proof of possessing own or leased land
5. Any other document as required
