Grant of Financial Assistance to Differently Abled Person
Puducherry
DisabilityFinancial AssistanceGrantPwD
Details
The scheme “Grant of Financial Assistance to Differently Abled Person” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry was introduced to provide monthly financial assistance to Persons with Disability to maintain their minimum standard of living. The selection is periodical and depends on the availability of funds.

Benefits
Disability Range - 40% to 65%: ₹ 2000/- per month.
Disability Range - 66% to 85%: ₹ 2500/- per month.
Disability Range - 86% to 100%: ₹ 3500/- per month.
Age Range - 60 to 79 years: ₹ 2700/- per month.
Age Range - 80 years and above: ₹ 3800/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/- per annum.
For Orthopaedic/Deaf/Dumb/Blind, the disability of the applicant should be 40% and above.
For the Mentally Retarded, the Intelligence Quotient (IQ) of the applicant should be below 69.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Birth Certificate.
Disability Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Community Certificate.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
