Government Special School for the Visually Handicapped and the Hearing Impaired
Puducherry
DisabilityFoodHandicappedSchoolStudentUniform
Details
The scheme “Government Special School for the Visually Handicapped and the Hearing Impaired” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry, was introduced to facilitate the education and self-confidence development of visually impaired and hearing-impaired children.

Benefits
Free boarding and lodging facilities for the children admitted.
Free academic education within the campus, along with training in vocal/instrumental music by specially appointed teachers.
Free supply of two sets of uniform dress per year for all school inmates.
Free distribution of text books, note books, and other educational necessities.
Free supply of daily living needs.
Free supply of Brailee books for visually impaired children.
Free annual tour arranged for all admitted children.
Free supply of hearing aids.
Separate accommodation facilities available for boys and girls in these schools.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a child who has completed 5 years of age.
The child must be visually impaired and hearing impaired.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Adhaar Card.
Voter ID.
Address Proof.
Ration Card.
Age Proof.
Disability/Medical Certificate.
Transfer Certificate.
