Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme for the Wards of Central Armed Police Forces & Assam Rifles
Ministry Of Home Affairs
Assam RiflesCAPFScholarshipStudentWardWidow
Details
The “Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme (PMSS) for the Wards of Central Armed Police Forces & Assam Rifles” is a scholarship scheme which was introduced by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India from the academic year 2006-07 to encourage higher technical & professional education for the dependent wards & widows of Central Armed Police Forces & Assam Rifles (CAPFs & AR) Personnel.
Number of Scholarship:
For the wards of CAPFs & Assam Rifles, a total of 2000 Scholarships (equally for both girls & boys) under PMSS will be given for each academic year in addition to renewal cases of previous years. Shortfall in fresh cases shall not be adjusted from girls/boys, if applicants (Boys/Girls) are selected less than 1000.

Benefits
The benefits under the scheme is as follows:
Amount of Scholarship:
• ₹3,000/- per month for girls.
• ₹2,500/- per month for boys 
Note: The above scholarship amount is to be paid annually after selection @ ₹36,000/- to each girl & ₹30,000/- to each boy.
Duration of Scholarship:
Up to 5 years (depending upon the duration of the course being pursued by the applicant and as approved by the respective regulatory body).
Eligibility
The eligibility criteria for availing financial assistance under this scheme are as follows:-
Wards/widows of deceased Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and Assam Rifles (ARs) personnel who died in harness/election duty, wards of personnel disabled due to causes attributable to Government service, and Wards of Ex CAPFs & AR personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards.
Wards/widows of retired and serving CAPFs & AR Personnel. (Personnel below Officer Rank)
Pursuing first professional degree programme in the field of Engineering, Medicine, Dental, Veterinary, BBA, BCA, B. Pharma, B.SC (Nursing, Agriculture, etc.), MBA and MCA, etc. in accordance with the guidelines as mentioned in Para- 8 (B).
Having a minimum of 60% marks in Minimum Entry Qualification (MEQ) i.e. 10+2/Diploma/Graduation or equivalent in case of a new applicant. (OR) For applicants applying under the renewal category, it is mandatory to pass each subsequent academic year of the professional courses being pursued by them with a minimum of 50% marks.
A grace period of one year only for cases, where there is a delay on the part of the candidate for submission of application for renewal of scholarship may be entertained.
Order of Preference:
Applications received from the eligible applicants under the Fresh category will be shortlisted on the basis of an order of preference as mentioned below and the percentage of marks obtained by them in MEQ:-
Sl. No. Category Details
1 Category-A  Wards/Widows of CAPFs & AR personnel killed in action.
2 Category-B Wards of Ex-CAPFs & AR personnel disabled in action.
3 Category-C Wards/Widows of deceased CAPFs & AR personnel died for causes attributable to Government service including casualties during conduct of Election.
4 Category-D Wards of Ex-CAPFs & AR personnel disabled while in service with disability attributable to Government Service
5 Category-E Wards of Ex-CAPFs & AR personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards.
6 Category-F Wards of Ex- CAPFs & AR personnel (PBOR).
7 Category-G Wards of serving CAPFs & AR personnel (PBOR) subject to availability of scholarship.
Note 01: Wards of deceased CAPF/AR personnel will be considered for scholarship under Categories “A” to “F” as per their priority, even on compassionate appointment of spouse/NOKs in CAPFs.
Note 02: The Wards of Assistant Commandant, holding Local Rank of CAPFs & AR (who are not entailing the pay benefits of Assistant Commandant and drawing the Salary of Inspectors) are eligible for granting PMS under category “F” & “G” also.
Note 03: This scholarship is admissible for only two Children per family and should be ensured by the beneficiaries as well as by the respective CAPF & AR.
Note 04: The applicants irrespective of his /her marital status are eligible for PMSS.
Minimum Entry Qualification (MEQ):
For being eligible for the Scholarship under PMSS, an applicant should have secured a minimum of 60% marks in MEQ i.e. 10+2 / Diploma / Graduation as the case may be. MEQ for entry to various professional courses differs. For example, MEQ for MBBS is 10+2 whereas for BE/B.Tech, it is 10+2/Diploma. It is graduation for B. Ed and MBA.
Note:
Wards admitted in 2nd year of technical/professional Bachelor Degree Course (BE/B. Tech etc.) through lateral entry after completion of Diploma courses are eligible for PMSS.
In case of applicant passed the XII exam from CBSE, marks obtained in the best of five subjects out of 500 will be considered for calculating the percentage of marks in MEQ.
Courses applicable under PMSS :
Only First professional degree courses like BE, B Tech, BDS, MBBS, B.Ed., BBA, BCA, B Pharma, B.Sc (Nursing, Agriculture, etc.) duly recognized by the respective Government Regulatory Bodies, such as All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Medical Council of India (MCI), University Grant Commission (UGC).
Details of professional degree courses applicable for PMSS are mentioned at Appendix – I.
Scholarship for Integrated Courses:
The PMSS is restricted to first Professional Degree Courses only. It is applicable for B.Ed but not for BA+B.Ed. In the case of integrated ME/M.Tech/ M.Pharma, the scholarship will be given for an initial three/four years as the case may be.
Application Process
Online
Online submission for the scholarship can be done through the website of the National Scholarship Portal with the required documents: https://scholarships.gov.in/ 
Registration for New Applicant:
Step 01: Open the official NSP website and click on "New Registration" under Applicant Corner.
Step 02: Read the Instruction /Guidelines, provide the undertaking by clicking on the Check box then click on Continue.
Step 03: Start the registration by providing the required details.
 Registered Applicant:
Step 01: Open the official NSP website and click on 'Fresh Application' under Applicant Corner.
Step 02: Login with your application ID & password.
Step 03: Select the Scholarship.
Step 04: Fill out the applicant form.
Step 05: Upload the required documents and Submit.
Letter from Hon’ble Prime Minister:
All applicants selected under the new category will be given personal letters from the Hon’ble Prime Minister in appropriate language.
Payment of Scholarship:
• The Scholarship amount under PMSS for applicants selected under fresh and renewal categories would be credited/transferred directly into the Bank accounts of the selected applicants through the Public Finance Management System (PFMS) under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Programme of the Government.
Important Instruction:
It will be the sole responsibility of the applicant to make sure that he/she is eligible to apply and fulfils all the conditions prescribed for the scholarship.
If the in-eligibility of the applicant is detected at any stage, before or after applying for the scholarship scheme, or during at any stage by verification by authorities, his/her scholarship will be cancelled without any notice. Disciplinary action will be taken against him/her, further, he/she will be blacklisted to opt for a scholarship sponsored by the Central Government for a period of five years.
An incomplete application form and failure to attach the requisite documents will lead to rejection of the application.
All the requisite information should be clearly mentioned in the respective column. The information once is generated on the part of applicants, no change/amendment will be accepted.
Mobile number and Email address of applicants or wards of CAPFs & AR personnel is mandatory so as to inform the candidate of any discrepancies or developments through SMS and Email.
Wards of deceased/retired and serving personnel of CAPFs/AR may contact:
Telephone number: 011-23063111
Email: secywarb- mha@nic.in.
Documents Required
The following documents in the respective category are mandatorily required to be submitted/uploaded by the applicant for applying online on NSP 2.0 under PMSS:-
For Fresh Applicant:
Aadhaar Card
Service Certificate to be issued by the H.O.O in case of serving personnel as per Annexure-A.
Applicants are required to upload a duly attested scanned copy of the Mark sheet MEQ i.e. XII/Diploma/Graduation or equivalent is mandatory along with the following certificate which is applicable:
PPO/Discharge Certificate/Book (Mandatory for category A to F)
Disability Certificate (Mandatory for category B & D)
Death Certificate (Mandatory for category A & C)
Certificate of Gallantry award (Mandatory for category E)
For Renewal:
Service Certificate to be issued by the H.O.O. in case of serving personnel as per Annexure-A.
The certificate issued by the educational institution (for category A to F)
Note: Submission of bank particulars including the account number of the nationalized bank by the applicant duly seeded with an Aadhaar Number is mandatory.
