Grant of Fuel Subsidy to Differently Abled Persons Who Are Owning Motorised Vehicles
Puducherry
DisabilityFuelMotorPwDSubsidyVehicle
Details
The scheme “Grant of Fuel Subsidy to Differently Abled Persons Who Are Owning Motorised Vehicles” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry was introduced to provide a subsidy of upto 50 % of the cost of fuel to persons with disability who own motorised vehicles. The selection is periodical and depends on the availability of funds.

Benefits
50 % of the cost of fuel subject to a maximum of 15 litres for vehicles of less than 2 Horsepower.
50 % of the cost of fuel subject to a maximum of 25 litres for vehicles of equal to or more than 2 Horsepower.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/- per annum.
The vehicle should be registered in the name of the applicant.
The distance between the residence of the applicant and the duty point should be greater than 6km.
The disability of the applicant should be 40% and above.
The applicant should not be should not be in receipt of transport allowance for conveyance from the Department or from any other source.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the authorities given below:
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
At the Time of Application
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Birth Certificate.
Disability Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Financial Assistance ID Card.
Community Certificate.
Driving License, issued by the Transport Department.
Registration Certificate (RC) Book.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.

Upon Selection
The beneficiary should produce bills and certificates as prescribed by the Department once in every three months with the signature and the signature of the agency where the petrol /diesel is purchased. 

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
