Grant of Transport Allowance to Differently Abled Persons
Puducherry
AllowanceDisabilityPwDTransport
Details
The scheme “Grant of Transport Allowance to Differently Abled Persons" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, a fixed sum ₹ 300/- per month shall be paid as Transport Allowance to the differently abled individuals.

Benefits
₹ 300/- per month shall be paid through Anganwadi Centres as Transport Allowance.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have orthopaedic disability of 40% or above.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/-.
The applicant should not be in receipt of any other financial assistance for conveyance purpose from the department or any other source.
The age of the applicant should be 5 years and above.
The applicant should not have a formal education qualification.
If the applicant possess a free bus pass, then the same should be surrendered to the Directorate of Social Welfare.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, Issued by the Competent Authority.
Recent Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Disability Certificate / Medical Certificate.
Community Certificate.
Financial Assistance ID Card of Deceased.
Electoral Voter Identity Card.
Declaration.
