“Home for the Aged" under Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE)
Puducherry
DoctorFoodHomeSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
The sub-scheme “Home for the Aged" under the umbrella scheme "Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE)" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the senior citizens are provided with stay at subsidiary rates, food (both vegetarian and non-vegetarian), routine health check up by doctors thrice in a week, providing news papers and television for entertainment.

Benefits
Stay at Subsidiary Rate of ₹1200/- for the Inmates.
Food (Both Vegetarian and Non-vegetarian).
Routine Health Check Up by Doctors Thrice in a Week.
Newspapers and Television for Entertainment.
Eligibility
The applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Pondicherry Society for the care of the Aged (PONCARE), Puducherry, 4th Cross - Sithankudi, 6th Cross Extension, Brindavanam, West, Puducherry - 605 013, +91-413-2245317, +91-413-2246318, +91-9443405499
, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to The Secretary, PONCARE.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Birth Certificate / Age Proof.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.Bank Passbook.
