“Medical Camps (Allopathy and Indian systems of Medicine)" under Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE)
Puducherry
CheckupDoctorHealthMedicineSenior Citizen
Details
The sub-scheme “Medical Camps (Allopathy and Indian systems of Medicine)" under the umbrella scheme "Grant-in-Aid to Pondicherry Society for the Care of the Aged (PONCARE)" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, senior citizens are provided free health checkups and free medicines.

Benefits
Free Health Checkup and Free Medicines.
Awareness Speech by Doctors.
Eligibility
The applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Pondicherry Society for the care of the Aged (PONCARE), Puducherry, 4th Cross - Sithankudi, 6th Cross Extension, Brindavanam, West, Puducherry - 605 013, +91-413-2245317, +91-413-2246318, +91-9443405499
, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to The Secretary, PONCARE.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Birth Certificate / Age Proof.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
