ICAR Post Matric Scholarship For Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribes Candidates
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgriculturePost MatricScheduled CasteScheduled TribeScholarship
Details
A post-matric scholarship scheme by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for the Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes candidates for study at Bachelor Degree program in various branches of Agriculture, viz. B.Sc.(Agri.), B.V.Sc., B.Sc.(Agril. Engg.), B.Sc.(Home Science), B.F.Sc., B.Sc.(Forestry) etc. The value of the scholarship will be ₹ 300/- per month along with a contingent grant of ₹ 750/- per annum for the payment of tuition fees, purchase of books, cost of uniforms, etc. The duration of the scholarship will cover the whole of the normal period of the particular degree program to which the candidate is admitted. The scheme provides for the award of 240 scholarships every year.

Benefits
Value of the Scholarship
The value of the scholarship will be ₹ 300/- per month along with a contingent grant of ₹ 750/- per annum for the payment of tuition fees, purchase of books, cost of uniforms, etc. 

Duration of the Scholarship
The duration of the scholarship will cover the whole of the normal period of the particular degree program to which the candidate is admitted. 

Number of Scholarships
The scheme provides for the award of 240 scholarships every year.
Eligibility
1. The applicant must be a citizen of India.
2. The applicant must be belonging to Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes communities as defined by the Government of India. 
3. The applicant must have been admitted to Agricultural Universities in any of the undergraduate degree programs of Agriculture & Allied Sciences viz. B.Sc.(Agri.), B.V.Sc., B.Sc.(Agril. Engg.), B.Sc.(Home Science),
B.F.Sc., B.Sc.(Forestry) etc.
Application Process
Online
[in progress]
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number
Proof of being admitted to an Agricultural University in an undergraduate degree program of Agriculture & Allied Sciences
Caste Certificate
Bank Details
Passport sized photograph
