Grant of Incentive for Marriage Between Differently Abled Person
Puducherry
DisabilityFinancial AssistanceIncentiveMarriagePwD
Details
The scheme “Grant of Incentive for Marriage Between Differently Abled Person” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry was introduced to encourage and support marriages between differently-abled individuals. Through this scheme, an incentive of ₹2,00,000/- is provided, comprising ₹40,000 in cash and ₹1,60,000/- in the form of National Savings Certificate (NSC). The selection is periodical and depends on the availability of funds.

Benefits
An Incentive of ₹ 2,00,000/- (₹ 40,000 in cash and ₹ 1,60,000/- in the form of NSC).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The applicant should have an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/- per annum.
The bride should be above 18 years of age.
The bridegroom should be above 21 years of age.
The disability of the bride and the bridegroom should be 40% and above.
The marriage should be the first marriage between the bride and the groom.
The marriage should have been registered.
The application should be submitted within 120 days after marriage.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card – Both Bride and Bridegroom.
2. Ration Card - Both Bride and Bridegroom.
3. Medical Certificate – Both Bride and Bridegroom.
4. Income Certificate.
5. Marriage Certificate.
6. Caste Certificate - Both Bride and Bridegroom.
7. Anganwadi Teacher’s Certificate.
8. Financial Assistance ID Card.
9. NOC in Case of Other State Candidates.
10. Voter ID Card – Both Bride and Bridegroom.
11. Marriage Invitation.
12. Marriage Photo.
13. Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
14. Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
15. Bank Passbook.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
