Assistance to General Farmers for Installation of Submersible / Centrifugal Motor Pumpsets With Accessories
Puducherry
AgricultureFarmerPumpSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Assistance to General Farmers for Installation of Submersible / Centrifugal Motor Pumpsets With Accessories" was launched by the Department of Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the farmers from the General Category are provided with a grant of 65% subsidy towards the installation of suitable Submersible / Centrifugal motor pump sets with accessories, subject to a maximum of ₹50,000/‐ per tubewell per individual.

Benefits
65% subsidy towards the installation of suitable Submersible / Centrifugal motor pump sets with accessories, subject to a maximum of ₹50,000/‐ per tubewell per individual.
The subsidy amount shall be released through the Electronic Clearing System (ECS) if the applicant has undertaken the construction with his/her funds. In case, he/she has availed himself/herself loan from the Nationalized Bank / Co‐operative Bank towards the construction of the tubewell, the subsidy amount shall be remitted to the Bank against the loan account of the beneficiary.
Eligibility
The applicant should be from the General Category.
The applicant should be a farmer in the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The tubewell in which the submersible/centrifugal motor pump sets is going to be erect and should have been registered in Pondicherry Ground Water Authority, Puducherry.
The applicant should hold a minimum of 1.5 acres of land under the command area of the tubewell to be constructed and the applicant should have ownership of the land at least for 2 years and should have a clear ownership title deed in his/her name. 
The eligible land holding of 1.5 acres should be in favour of the applicant farmer or in favour of the spouse or favour of the member of a joint/undivided family.
The farmers who have already availed themselves of the subsidy for the said purpose within 5 years are not entitled to any benefit under this scheme.
The applicant should not convert the lands for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of construction of the tubewell/filter point to any purpose other than agriculture and should execute a bond accordingly.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The applicant must obtain the mandatory PERMIT for the construction of a new / replacement tubewell from the Pondicherry Ground Water Authority, Puducherry.
Step 2: The applicant of the Puducherry region should approach the concerned office towards the construction of the tubewell by deploying departmental machinery. The applicants who want to construct the tubewell through private machinery should approach the concerned office to get NOC.
Step 3: After obtaining NOC, the farmer has to construct a tubewell by deploying private machinery which is registered with Pondicherry Ground Water Authority, Puducherry. Inspection will be conducted by the Agricultural Officer (Engg.) concerned at the time of the construction of the tubewell to ascertain the details of pipes and other materials used.  
Step 4: After successful completion of the tubewell/filter point construction work under departmental supervision, the interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the concerned office and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority:
Puducherry: Office of the Hydrogeologist‐II, State Ground Water Unit & Soil Conservation, Thattanchavady, Puducherry‐9.
Karaikal: Office of the Additional Director of Agriculture, Karaikal.
Step 5: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 6: Submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the aforementioned authority.
Step 7: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique seniority number will be assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application will be issued to the applicant. 
*The application should be submitted within 90 days from the date of completion of the tubewell/filter point construction work.
Documents Required
The certificate for the ownership of the land issued by an officer, not below the rank of Deputy Tahsildar.
The copy of the Registration certificate, Permit and Energisation Certificate issued by the Pondicherry Ground Water Authority, Puducherry.
Original bills for the expenses incurred towards the construction of the tubewell (or) in case of those who have availed themselves of a Bank loan, attested copy of the original bills, and certificate from the Bank to that effect.
Copy of the Aadhaar card, Farmers Identity Card, and Bank passbook front page.
*Upon selection, the beneficiaries should submit an affidavit signed before a Notary Public to the effect that the above-said land is under his / her possession, he/she will not sell, mortgage or transfer the lands to any other person for 10 years and that he/she will not convert the land for any other purpose other than agriculture and in case if he/she is found to have not abided by the terms, he/she will be liable for such course of legal action by the Government for breach of any of the conditions of the schemes besides facing recovery/cancellation of subsidy.  
