Grant-in-Aid to Non-governmental Organisations Running Residential Homes for the Children, Aged, and Vulnerable Persons Under Social Defence
Puducherry
ChildrenHomeNGOSenior CitizenShelter
Details
The scheme “Grant-in-Aid to Non-governmental Organisations Running Residential Homes for the Children, Aged, and Vulnerable Persons Under Social Defence" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. Through this scheme, NGOs are paid ₹ 500/- per month per inmates for 12 months. Financial assistance is released in two equal installments and is limited to 90% of the grant-in-aid. The NGO bears 10% of the grant-in-aid.

Benefits
Grant-in-Aid for consolidated expenses of all recurring items, eg., food, clothing, soap, oil, electricity and water charges, postage, stationery, education, vocational training, health, recreation, salary of staff, rent etc., at ₹ 500 per inmate/per month for 12 months, restricted to 90% of the estimated cost whichever is less.
Eligibility
The NGO should be running residential Homes for orphans, Destitute and street children, Aged and infirm, Physically and Mentally disabled persons.
The NGO should be registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (Act XXI of 1860); or a public trust registered under any law for the time being in force; or a charitable company licensed under section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956.
The NGO should ordinarily have existed for a period of three years continuously at the time of application. This condition may be relaxed by the Government in deserving cases where the institution could not be run without assistance from the Government and was started with the sole object of 
supplementing the social welfare activities of the Government.
The NGO should have been licensed by the Department of Social Welfare under the Women and Children Licensing Rules, 1956.
The NGO should have a properly constituted managing body with its powers, duties and responsibilities clearly defined and laid down in writing. 
The NGO should have a sound financial position.
The NGO should have facilities and resources for running the residential homes. 
The NGO should be non-sectarian offering services to its beneficiaries irrespective of religion, caste, colour or creed. 
The NGO should not be run for profit of any individual or a body of individuals. 
The NGO should be free from corrupt practices.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Field Officer, Social Defence Section, Directorate of Social Welfare.
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub office), Mahe / Yanam.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Registration Certificate/License.
MoU/ Bye Law.
Audit Report.
Utilization Certificate.
Annual Report.
