Mukhyamantri Kalyakani Pension Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
EmpowermentFinancial BenefitsWidowWomen
Details
Mukhamantri Kalyani Pension Yojana under the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Government of Madhya Pradesh Financial assistance is provided every month to Kalyani (widow) residing in the state for providing social security and subsistence. 

Benefits
Pension amount: Rs. 600/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant's age should be 18 years or older.
The applicant is not an income taxpayer.
The applicant is not a government employee/officer (Government employee/officer refers to the employees/officers working under the state or central government or government-benefited corporations, undertakings, or organizations.)
The applicant's family is not receiving a Kalyani pension.
The applicant's name is marked on the Samagra portal.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: Applicants can apply for the scheme using the prescribed format and submitting the necessary documents either to the designated officer's office, the Gram Panchayat, or a Public Service Center.
Step 2: Upon submitting a complete application, the applicant will receive a mandatory acknowledgment from the office.
Step 3: The District Panchayat/Gram Panchayat/Urban Body/Ward Office will scrutinize the documents submitted with the application.
Step 4: If, after investigation, the documents are found to be incorrect according to the rules, the application will be rejected with written explanation. 
Step 5: If, after investigation, the documents are found to be correct, the pension case will be approved according to the rules.
Step 6: Once the pension is approved, the beneficiary's name will be added to the pension proposal for the current month by the District Panchayat/Gram Panchayat/Urban Body/Ward Office. The approved order will be maintained on record.
Step 7: The Directorate will deposit the monthly pension amount directly into the beneficiary's bank savings account through a single click, starting from the same month the approval is granted.
Documents Required
Three photos of beneficiary.
Death certificate of husband.
Certificate for proof of age.
9-digit Samagra I.D. 
