State Medical Scholarship (Scholarship Scheme for MBBS & Allied Courses, Nursing and Paramedical Students)
Nagaland
MBBSMedicalNursingParamedicalScholarshipStudent
Details
The “State Medical Scholarship” is a scholarship scheme, launched by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, Government of Nagaland. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to students who are pursuing MBBS & Allied Courses, Nursing and Paramedical courses.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance/scholarships will be provided to students according to the course/programme in which they are enrolled.
Eligibility
A student should fulfill the following criteria to be eligible for this Scholarship:
The applicant/student should be an inhabitant of Nagaland.
Students selected through NEET/NSEE/State Departmental Examination only and undergoing medical, nursing and paramedical courses shall be eligible to apply.
Students failing to complete their curriculum within the specified duration of the course (repeaters) shall not be entitled to an additional stipend.
Application Process
Online
Online - Via CSCs
All eligible students shall apply through the Common Scholarship Portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in
Step 01: Registration
To register, visit the official Common Scholarship Portal of Nagaland: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in 
Create an Account: If the applicant is a new user, click on the "Register" option. Provide your MOBILE Number linked with AADHAAR to get an OTP and verify the mobile. Once Mobile is verified, provide essential details such as your name, email address and create a unique password. Click on the "Register" button to proceed.
Step 02: Login
Login to Your Account: Once your mobile number is verified, log in to your scholarship account using the credentials the applicant created during registration.
Step 03: Fill in the User Profile
Personal Details: Update your personal information, including name, date of birth, gender, category, Bank Account Details, etc.
Step 04: Apply for Scholarship
Select your Scholarship Scheme, Institution, Institution State, Institution, District and proceed.
Academic Information: Provide details about your educational background, such as school/college name, course, year of study, etc.
Step 05: Upload Documents
Upload Required Documents: Depending on the scholarship applicants are applying for, applicants will need to upload supporting documents. Commonly required documents include:
Step 06: Verify and Submit
Review Your Application: Carefully review all the information applicants have entered and the documents applicants have uploaded. Make sure everything is accurate and complete.
Submit Application: Once applicants are satisfied with your application, click on the "Submit" button.
Step 07: Track Your Application
Application Tracking: After submitting your application, applicants can track its status on the portal: https://scholarship.nagaland.gov.in/
Log in to your account and check for updates on your application's status regularly.
Note 01: The Department will accept applications through the Portal (online) only.
Note 02: Application submitted in Hardcopy to the Directorate will not be entertained and shall be considered as not applied.
Note 03: Applications with Incomplete/Unclear documents will be summarily rejected.
Note 04: Applications received after the last date of submission will be rejected.
Note 05: On submission a unique Registration No will be generated.  Applicants are required to note this number for Renewal in the subsequent years.
Note 06: The Department will not be responsible for non-receipt of scholarship due to wrong/inactive bank account number/details provided by the applicant. 
Note 07: Applicants is warned that if he/she gives false statements/declarations/documents etc. or otherwise obtained a scholarship through fraudulent means, he/she will be blacklisted and debarred from getting a scholarship under this scheme or any other scholarship schemes for the entire period of his/her studies. The scholarship amount if already paid will also be recovered.
Note 08: Incomplete/wrong entries in the e-Form or incomplete/incorrect upload of necessary documents will be subject to rejection. Correction/ rectification after submission will not be entertained.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Aadhaar Card
Forwarding letter from the concerned Institution
A copy of the Nomination letter (NSEE/NEET/State Departmental Exam)
A copy of the Aadhaar Card
A copy of the SBI Account Number (first page of the Bank passbook or statement clearly indicating Account Number and Account Holders Name)
Indigenous Certificate
Educational Qualification Certificates
Caste/community Certificate, if applicable
Disability certificate, if applicable
Note 01: All the documents should be Self-Attest. Submission of unattested documents will lead to rejection of the application.
Note 02: Bank account number should be of that of the applicant only. Only Bank Accounts of the State Bank of India will be accepted.
