Financial Assistance for Purchase of Fuel (Petrol) to the Fishermen for Operation of Out Board Motors
Goa
Financial AssistanceFishFishermenPetrolSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Purchase of Fuel (Petrol) to the Fishermen for Operation of Out Board Motors” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, a subsidy of ₹ 30 per Litre on a maximum consumption of 1000 Litre of Petrol is provided to the fishermen.

Benefits
Subsidy of ₹ 30 per Litre on a maximum consumption of 1000 Litre of Petrol.
For SC/ST, a Subsidy of ₹ 30 per Litre on a maximum consumption of 1100 Litre of Petrol.
The benefits can be availed every year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a traditional fisherman by birth or profession.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa.
The applicant's fishing canoe should be registered under the Merchant Shipping Act, of 1958 and the rules framed there under.
The applicant should be a member of the Registered Fisheries Co-operative Societies/ Association or Individual.
The applicant should not be a defaulter of the Directorate of Fisheries.
The applicant should not be a violator of the Goa Daman & Diu Marine Fishing Regulation Act,1980 (Act No.3 of 1981).
Petrol OBM (Out Board Motors) having 10HP or below should be incorporated on the Fishing Vessel/Canoe.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Certificate of Vessel Registration, with OBM (Out Board Motors) incorporated on it, issued by the Directorate of Fisheries, Government of Goa, under the Merchant Shipping Act 1958.
Fishing Vessel License Certificate, issued under the Goa, Daman & Diu Marine Fishing Regulation Rules 1982.
Fishing Net License Certificate, issued under the Goa Fisheries Rule 1981.
Caste Certificate, if applicable.
Aadhaar Card.
ECS Mandate Form.
Self Declaration.
Original bill (may be submitted by the owner of the petrol pump).
Petrol Consumption Passbook maintained by Registered Fisheries Cooperative Societies/ Association/ Individuals.
