Basic Agriculture Training Centre Scheme
Meghalaya
AgricultureEmploymentEntrepreneurship SkillsFarmerTraining CentreUnemployed YouthVocational Training
Details
The “Basic Agriculture Training Centre Scheme” is a State Plan Scheme, which is implemented by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objective of the scheme is to provide short-term vocational training for rural educated unemployed youths in agriculture and allied sectors to develop entrepreneurship skills and employment generation.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Free short-term training to educated unemployed rural youths.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If Any):
Training and capacity building.
Stipend @ ₹500/- per participant per month.
Seed money @ ₹10,000/- per participant.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be an unemployed rural youth.
The applicant should have passed Class X.
The applicant should be interested in starting farm-based activities.
The applicant should have owned or leased agricultural land.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible Educated Rural Youths can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the relevant documents at the office of the Principal, Basic Agricultural Training Centre (BATC).
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
The selection procedure is based on merit and on the condition that applicants own agricultural land on which they can start their farm-based activities. 
Whom to Contact:
District Agriculture Officers of the concerned districts.
Sub-Divisional Agricultural Officers of the concerned sub-divisions.
District Training Officers, Tura/Shillong.
Agricultural Development Officers of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks.
Documents Required
Residential certificate from competent authority
Educational Qualification (SSLC) Certificate 
ST/SC Certificate, if applicable
Birth Certificate
EPIC
Bank Pass Book, copy of the first page of the trainee's own functional Bank Savings Account
Two (2) Number of Passport size photographs & 1(one) Stamp Size photograph.
Land Document
Medical fitness certificate from respective PHC/CHC (Original)
Unemployment Certificate
Note 01: The unemployment status of a candidate may be included in a Recommendation letter issued by the respective District Level Officers of the Department of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare. Alternatively, a self-certification by a candidate duly endorsed by any Gazetted Officer may also be accepted.
Note 02: All the documents should be self-attested by the applicant.
Note 03: If Applicant opts for Non-Farm Agri-business/activities, the Land document is not mandatory, but has to indicate "Non-Farm" in this column.
