"Advance / High Skill Training" Component of the "Development of Industries" Scheme
Puducherry
EmploymentITISkillStipendTrainingYouth
Details
The "Advance / High Skill Training" Component of the "Development of Industries" Scheme by the District Industries Centre, Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry aims to enhance the skill of those who have completed the basic training and are interested in advanced training in their trade or the candidates having technical qualification who are willing to undergo some special high skilled training to start their ventures or to get suitable employment opportunity in competitive fields.

Benefits
Skill Training
Selected candidates are sponsored to training in relevant courses offered by reputed Training Institutions situated in the neighbouring states.
Stipend to Trainee (per month)
Higher Secondary / ITI: ₹ 2,500/-.
Any Graduate or 3 years Diploma in Engineering or equivalent: ₹ 3,000/-.
Travelling Allowances
One-time to and fro expenses restricted to 2nd class train fare and accommodation charges as fixed by the institute
Course Fees / Honorarium and Accommodation Charges
As prescribed by the training units/institutions will be paid.
Period of Training
As prescribed by the Training Units/ Institutions.
Eligibility
The applicant should be between 18 and 35 years of age.
The applicant should possess the educational qualification as prescribed by the Training Units/ Institutions.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry (or) continuous resident of the area for the past three years. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the General Manager of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009, 2248391, 2249392, 2248987, dic_pdy@bsnl.in), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Applicant's Passport-sized Photo.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Age Proof.
Educational Certificates/Marksheets.
