NITI Internship Scheme
NITI Aayog (National Institution for Transforming India)
InternshipStudent
Details
An Internship Scheme named "NITI Internship Scheme" seeks to engage students pursuing Under Graduate / Graduate / Post Graduate Degrees or are Research Scholars enrolled in recognized University/ Institution within India or abroad, as "interns". These 'interns" shall be given exposure to various Verticals/ Divisions/Units within NITI Aayog and would be expected to supplement the process of analysis within NITI Aayog through empirical collection and collation of in-house and other information. The internship will be on unpaid basis. This will allow short term exposure of "selected candidates" with the different Verticals/Divisions/Units of NITI Aayog, Government of India as 'Interns".  Following are the domains/areas for which Internship is invited:-
Agriculture
Data Management and Analysis
Economics
Education/Human Resources Development
Energy Sector
Foreign Trade / Commerce
Governance
Health , Nutrition, Women & Child Development
Industry
Infrastructure connectivity
Mass Communications and Social Media
Mining Sector
Natural Resources, Environment & Forests
Programme Monitoring and Evaluation
Project appraisal and management.
Public Finances/Budget
Public Private Partnership
Rural Development and SDGs
Science and Technology
Skill Development & Employment
Social justice and empowerment
Sports and Youth development.
Tourism and culture
Urbanization / smart city.
Water Resources.
The period of Internship shall be at least six weeks but not exceeding six months. Interns will be required to have their own laptops. NITI Aayog shall provide them working space, internet facility and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned Heads.
Objectives
The Scheme has the following objectives:
To allow young academic talent to be associated with the NITI Aayog's work for mutual benefit.
The "intern" shall have an opportunity to know about the Government functioning and Developmental Policy issues in Government of India and contribute to the Policy formulation by generating policy inputs such as empirical analysis, briefing reports, policy papers, etc.

Benefits
Experience Certificate/Internship Completion Certificate: A certificate regarding successful completion of Internship shall be issued by the Adviser of the concerned Subject Division
Allows young academic talent to be associated with the NITI Aayog's work for mutual benefit.
Opportunity to know about the Government functioning and Developmental Policy issues in Government of India and contribute to the Policy formulation by generating policy inputs such as empirical analysis, briefing reports, policy papers, etc.
NOTE: Interns not completing the requisite period will not be issued any certificate.
Eligibility
Bonafide students of any recognized University/Institution within India or abroad, fulfilling following conditions are eligible to apply for the internship:-
Under-graduate students, having completed/appeared in the term end exams of second year/4th semester of the bachelor degree course and secured not less than 85% or equivalent marks in 12th class.
Graduate students having completed/ appeared in the term end exams of first year/2nd semester of their post graduate programme or pursuing research/PhD and secured not less than 70% or equivalent marks in Graduation.
The students who have appeared in the final exam or just completed Graduation/PG and waiting for admission for higher studies may also be considered for internship provided that:-
they have secured 70% or more cumulative marks in all the years/semesters of their graduation/post-graduation till the date of application.
The period between the month of declaration of result of final exam and the desired month of internship should not exceed six months e.g. if the result is declared in the month of June then he/she can apply for the internship beginning till the month of December.
NOTES:
The candidates need to apply 2 months in advance for the internship, and the application will be valid for the desired month only. 
While doing the internship, the student must have an attendance of 75% to successfully complete the internship. 
The time between the declaration of final exam results and the month of starting the internship should not be more than 6 months, this is applicable only to those who are applying after completing their studies. 
The selected applicant has to produce original mark sheets and NOC from the college/institution at the time of joining, failing which his/her candidature shall be cancelled.
Application Process
Online
Visit the official website i.e https://workforindia.niti.gov.in/intern/InternshipEntry/PCInternshipEntry.aspx


After reading the instructions to fill the form. Fill all the details of the applicant.
In the field "Area of Interest", choose only one area of interest.
Click on Preview button to verify all details. On preview page check all entered details. 
In case any correction is needed, click on Edit button.
If all fields are correct, submit button will appear for final submission of form. Then click Submit.
Applicant can check the status of his application on the link: https://workforindia.niti.gov.in/intern/InternshipEntry/checkstatus.aspx
NOTES:
An applicant is eligible to apply for the internship only if he/she fulfils the minimum eligibility criteria mentioned in the guidelines.
Internship application will be accepted through ONLINE mode only during 1st (00:00 hrs) to 10th (23:59 hrs) of every month. No other mode of application is accepted. 
One is advised to check the details before submission. No correspondence regarding change of details will be entertained. 
Applicant should note Registration Number after submitting the application form for future reference.
NITI Aayog does not assume any responsibility if one is not being able to submit his/her application on account of technical reasons or any other reason beyond the control of NITI Aayog. 
Applicant need not send the printout of ONLINE application or any other supporting documents.
Applicant should apply within 6 months from the month of declaration of the result of the final exam. For e.g. if the result is declared in June, then he/she can apply to begin the internship in December at the latest.
Indication of option does not reserve any right offering the same sector. 
Allocation of the desired sector will be subject to availability and at the discretion of NITI Aayog.
In case of any web related issues, one can write at nic-niti@gov.in.
Documents Required
Marksheets of class 10th and 12th.
Marksheets of all semesters/years of graduation, PG, along with the degree (as applicable)
NOC in a specific format as mentioned in the application guidelines.
