Free Medical Card for Media Persons
Puducherry
HospitalMediaMedicalPress
Details
The scheme "Free Medical Card for Media Persons" by the Department of Information & Publicity, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to provide free medical facilities to press correspondents and members of their families in Government hospitals /institutions under the control of the Administration. This will include free treatment in the Government hospitals /institutions of Puducherry with entitlement to A-Class Special Wards.

Benefits
Identification Cards/Certificates will be issued to the eligible media persons for availing the following facilities - 
Free medical facilities to the press correspondents and members of their families in Government hospitals /institutions under the control of the Administration. 
Free treatment in the Government hospitals /institutions of Puducherry with entitlement of 'A-Class' Special Wards. In the absence of such wards, wards of the next lower category shall be provided.
The free medical facility will also include hospital stoppages, investigation charges, etc.
Time of Disbursal: The Medical Card will be issued within a working day from the date of application.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than five years.
The applicant should be a Press Correspondent.
Application Process
Offline
The applicant should write a formal letter, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required), and submit the same to - 
The Director
Department of Information & Publicity
18, Belcombe Street, Puducherry - 605 001
+91-413-2334398, 2336415, 2337078
info.pon@nic.in
*The Office Timings are Monday to Friday, 08:45 am to 01:00 pm & 02:00 pm to 05:45 pm.
Documents Required
Nativity and Nationality Certificate (Form-II), from an officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar. 
Media Person's Identity Card, issued by the Directorate of Information and Publicity, Puducherry. 
Two Passport Size Photographs.
