Maternity Benefit (ANBOCWWB)
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourMaternity
Details
The scheme “Maternity Benefit” was started by the Andaman & Nicobar Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (ANBOCWWB), Department of Labour, Employment & Training, Andaman & Nicobar Administration. Under this scheme, the female employees who are registered beneficiaries for a period of one year shall receive financial assistance as maternity benefits during the period of maternity. Additionally, male employees who are registered beneficiaries for a period of one year, and whose wives are 19 years or older and not registered beneficiaries shall also be eligible for financial assistance as maternity benefits.

Benefits
The women employees, who are registered beneficiaries for a period of one year, shall be given a sum of ₹20,000/- as maternity benefit during the period of maternity.
Male employees, who are registered beneficiaries for a period of one year, and whose wives are 19 years or older and not registered beneficiaries, shall also receive a sum of ₹10,000/- as maternity benefit.
Eligibility
The beneficiary should be a resident of the Union territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
The beneficiary should be engaged in any building & other construction work.
The beneficiary should be registered under the A&N Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The beneficiary should have an active membership of the Board.
The women employees, who are registered beneficiaries for a period of one year, shall be eligible for maternity benefits during the period of maternity.
The male employees, who are registered beneficiaries for a period of one year, and whose wives are 19 years or older and not registered beneficiaries, shall be eligible for maternity benefits.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Portal Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit online Portal: https://serviceonline.gov.in/login.do
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and fill in all the mandatory details.
Step 03: Click on the ‘Submit’ button and validate your Email ID & Mobile Number using OTP received.
Step 04: After successful validation, the applicant will be registered.
Registration Process of Construction Workers under A&N Islands Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board:
Step 01: Applicant can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the “Registration of Construction Workers in AN BOCWWB” and then click to proceed registration process.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 07: Preview the form and click on ‘Submit’.
Step 08: After successful registration, the applicant will receive a registration ID. 
Application Process for Maternity Financial Benefit:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, the applicants can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the ‘Maternity Financial Benefit’ and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 07: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Application Tracking:
Step 01: To track the application status, the applicant can visit the online Portal and login through their ‘User ID’ & ‘Password’.
Step 02: On the home page, click on “View Application Status’ and then click on ‘Track Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Reference Number and click on ‘Get Data’ to know the status of your application.
Documents Required
Documents required for registration under A&N Islands Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board:
Passport size photograph
Proof of age
Identity proof
Details of EPF, if any
Proof of address
90 Days Work Duration Certificate issued by the competent authority
Bank account details
Any other document as required
Documents required for Maternity Benefit Scheme:
Registration ID Card of Worker
Identity proof of worker i.e. Aadhaar Card
Latest Subscription Receipt
Address proof
Bank account details of worker/Copy of passbook
Identity proof of wife (if applying for wife)
Proof of age (if applying for wife)
Proof of pregnancy/medical reports or certificate
Any other document as required
