Andaman & Nicobar Islands Scheme for Health Insurance
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
ANISHICashless TreatmentHealthInsurancePatient
Details
The scheme “Andaman & Nicobar Islands Scheme for Health Insurance (ANISHI)” was launched by the Health Department, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands on 26.01.2015. The scheme provides cashless medical treatment benefit upto ₹5.00 Lakhs per patient per illness to the people belonging to Below Poverty Level/Priority House Hold, Pensioners of A&N Administration who have settled in these Islands after retirement with their dependent family member and Permanent Resident whose family annual income is below ₹3.00 Lakhs. Many of these patients come from economically disadvantage backgrounds and are unable to bear the cost of hospital expense in mainland hospital. In order to provide assistance to such patients the Administration decided to lodge its own health Insurance Scheme which shall provide better health care to the persons.

Benefits
The Health Insurance (ANISHI) shall provide cashless treatment upto ₹5 Lakhs per patients per illness which include indoor and outdoor treatments.
Free travel expenses for patients with one attendant shall be reimbursed (Bunk class fare).
Critically ill patients, if referred under the scheme to travel by flight, will be entitled to reimbursement of the air ticket for the patient and one attendant.
In the very rare case of a beneficiary falling sick during a personal visit to the mainland and who requires emergency treatment, benefits under the scheme can be availed of but the travel expenses will not be allowed.
Note: In case the beneficiary undergoes treatment or on his own gets admitted in empanelled/non-empanelled hospital without completing codal formalities at State Nodal Cell (ANISHI), the reimbursement of hospital expense for such cases ‘will not be allowed’ under the scheme.
Eligibility
The persons/patients of the following categories are eligible to avail the benefits under the scheme:
The person who belongs to the BPL category settled in the A&N Islands can avail of the benefits under the scheme.
The Government pensioners of the A&N Administration who have settled in these Islands after retirement with their dependent family members can avail of the benefits under the scheme.
The permanent resident of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands whose family annual income is below ₹3.00 Lakhs can avail of the benefits under the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The eligible person(s)/patient can avail of the cashless benefit in any empanelled hospital notified by the Administration from time to time ‘by completing the codal formalities at Nodal Cell (ANISHI)’.
Step 02: The patient is to be referred by the concerned specialist of GB Pant Hospital, Port Blair thereafter, he/she has to approach the Nodal Cell (ANISHI) located at the DHS Office for the cashless benefit of the scheme.
Step 03: The state Nodal Cell processes the case within 02 days and after obtaining approval of the Chairman ANISHI, orders are issued to the empanelled hospital to provide cashless benefit to treat the referred patient under the ANISHI Scheme.
Note 01: In case the beneficiary is on his personal visit to the mainland and had fallen sick requiring emergency treatment and gets admitted to one of the empanelled hospitals under the scheme, the Medical Superintendent /Director of the concerned empanelled hospital in the mainland will have to first inform the Nodal Officer (ANISHI) about the particulars of the patient and his/her clinical condition.
Note 02: The State Nodal Cell after verification of records convey the approval to treat the patient as per the guidelines of the scheme, however, the patient/relatives have to submit the documents as the case may be.
Note 03: In such cases, the travel expense to the patient /attendant will not be reimbursed. If the patient gets admitted in a ‘hospital which is not empanelled’ under the scheme, then the benefit will be extended only if the patient is shifted to the nearest empanelled hospital under the scheme.
(Application Form)
Documents Required
BPL Patient:
Islander Card/Voter ID Card 
BPL Ration Card
Pensioners:
Pension Payment Order
Ration Card
Islander Card/Voter ID Card 
Permanent Resident Category Patients:
Islander Card/Voter ID Card 
Ration Card
