Death Benefit (MBOCWWB)
Meghalaya
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerDeathFinancial AssistanceLabour
Details
The scheme “Death Benefit” is a social security scheme, implemented by the Meghalaya Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (MBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Meghalaya. Under the scheme, financial assistance shall be provided to the nominees or dependents of registered construction workers in the event of their natural or accidental death during the course of employment.

Benefits
Under the scheme, an amount of ₹2,00,000/- shall be given to the nominees or dependents of registered construction workers towards death benefit, in case of natural death.
If the death is due to an accident during the course of employment, the nominee or dependent of registered construction workers shall be given ₹3,00,000/- towards death benefit.
The amount of ₹2,00,000/- for Natural Death & ₹5,00,000/- for Accidental Death shall be given to the nominees or dependents of registered construction workers who are not covered under any insurance scheme.
There shall be no bar for the nominee to claim any other death or accidental death benefit under any insurance scheme covering the beneficiaries (i.e. PMJJBY/PMSBY/etc.).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a legal nominee or dependent of the deceased worker.
The deceased worker should have been a resident of the Meghalaya.
The deceased worker should have been engaged in any building or other construction work.
The deceased worker should have been registered under the Meghalaya Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The financial assistance shall be given to the nominees or dependents of deceased registered workers in the event of their natural or accidental death during their course of employment.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Online Worker Registration Process (Portal):
Step 01: The applicants may visit the online Portal: https://megbocwwb.gov.in/bocw_services/login.htm
Step 02: The applicant can register by creating a new account, on the home page click on the ‘Worker’ button and enter all the mandatory information.
Step 03: After filling in all the details, click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicant will see the message “Registered Successfully”.
Application Process for Death Benefit:
Step 01: Visit the online Portal: https://megbocwwb.gov.in/bocw_services/login.htm 
Step 02: Enter your User ID (Registered Mobile Number), Password, and Enter Security Code. Click on Login.
Step 03: After successful login, click on the “Death Benefit” scheme from the Dashboard.
Step 04: Fill in all the required information and necessary enclosures.
Step 05: Click ‘Submit’ to apply for benefits.
Application Process to Track/Update:
Step 01: Visit the online Portal: https://megbocwwb.gov.in/bocw_services/login.htm
Step 02: Enter your User ID (Registered Mobile Number), Password, and Enter Security Code. Click on Login.
Step 03: From the menu, click on ‘Track Application Status’.
Step 04: Click on ‘View Details’ to view your application.
Step 05: Click on ‘Application History’ to view the application history.
Step 06: Click on ‘Update’ to update your application.
Note: Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update it.
(Worker’s User Manual)
Documents Required
MBOCWWB ID Card of worker
Death Certificate
Challan/Receipt of the Monthly Subscription paid
Nominee's ID Proof may be Voter ID, Licence or others 
Bank Passbook
Applicant Address Proof
Medical Certificate
Nominee’s Consent Letters
Guardian Certificate (in case Applicant is Minor)
Any other documents as required
