Pension To The Disabled Person
Chandigarh
DisabilityDisable PersonPensionPension Disability
Details
The Pension to the Disabled Person scheme under the Social Welfare, Women & Child Development Chandigarh is Disability pension to a disabled person granted to Physically Handicapped persons. A person who is disabled to the extent of 40% and is resident of Union Territory of Chandigarh and fulfills the income criteria i.e., family income does not exceed  ₹1.50 lacs per annum. is eligible for a grant of pension. 
Everyone deserves to live with dignity and respect, regardless of their abilities. Offering a pension to disabled persons recognizes their inherent value and ensures they are not left to live in poverty or dependence.

Benefits
The pension payable to each person shall be ₹1000/- per annum to those persons having 40% to 70% of disability.
₹2000/-per annum to those persons having more than 70% of disability.
Eligibility
The applicant's disability must be to the extent of 40% or above then they will be eligible to avail the benefit of same. 
The applicant must be a resident of UT Chandigarh for more than 3 years. 
The family income of the applicant should not exceed  ₹1.50 lacs annually.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant Download the form in (Hindi)
             The applicants Download the form in (English)
Step 2: Before you start filling out the form, carefully read any instructions or guidelines provided. 
Step 3:  Collect all the information and documents you will need to complete the form. 
Step 4: Once you have completed the form, follow the instructions for submission. 
Step 5: Make a copy of the completed form for your records before submitting it. This will serve as a reference in   
             case you need to refer back to the information provided.
Step 6: Submit it to the respective Nodal office/ Nagar Nigam office.
Documents Required
Two passport size photographs.
Certificate of disability having percentage of disability 40% or above
Aadhar Card.
Residence proof of three years (Voter Card, Ration Card, Electricity Bill etc).
