Relief under Natural Calamity / Pandemic Period (PBAOCWWB)
Puducherry
CalamityDisasterFinancial AssistancePandemicRelief
Details
The "Relief under Natural Calamity / Pandemic Period" is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the Board provides financial assistance of ₹ 2,000/- to the registered worker as a relief during a natural calamity/pandemic. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the registered construction worker. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
₹ 2,000/- credited as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have completed the age of 18 years.
The applicant should not have completed the age of 60 years during the preceding 12 months in the construction work.
The beneficiary should be contributing to the Board's Fund.
The applicant should not have defaulted in payment of contribution to the Board for a continuous period of more than one year.
The applicant should have been hospitalized for five or more days due to an accident or any disease.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Last Subscription Bill.
Board ID Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Bank Pass Book.
