Maternity Assistance Scheme (PBAOCWWB)
Puducherry
ConstructionDBTFinancial AssistanceMaternityPregnantWorker
Details
The "Maternity Assistance" is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the women employees who are beneficiary of the fund shall be given ₹5,000/- each as maternity benefit during the period of maternity. The spouse of male employee who is the beneficiary of the fund shall also be given this benefit. The benefits can only be availed twice.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹5,000/- credited within 15 days through DBT.
*The spouse of male employee who is the beneficiary of the fund shall also be given this benefit. 
*The benefits can only be availed twice.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have completed the age of 18 years.
The applicant should be a Woman.
The applicant should be Pregnant.
The applicant should not have completed the age of 60 years during the preceding 12 months in the construction work.
The beneficiary should be contributing to the fund until he/she attains the age of 60 years. 
The applicant should not have defaulted in payment of contribution to the Board for a continuous period of more than one year.
The applicant should not already have received the benefits of this scheme two times.
The spouse of male employee who is the beneficiary of the fund is also eligible.
Application Process
Offline
Registration
Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the registration form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the registration form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required), add a declaration stating that you are a construction worker, mentioning your worksite. 
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed registration form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the registration form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Step 5: Upon verification by the inspectors under the Act towards genuineness, the concerned worker will be enrolled as a beneficiary with the approval of the Secretary (Board). 
*The beneficiary should pay the registration of ₹25/- at the time of enrollment and ₹100/- per year as an annual subscription.
*The Board collects ₹300/- as a renewal fee once in three years.

Application
Step 1: The interested construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested construction worker should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section "Application for Welfare Benefits" on Page No. 77 of the Citizen's Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The application should be submitted within one year from the date of delivery period
Documents Required
For Registration
1. Duly Filled and Signed Application Form.
2. Birth Certificate/Transfer Certificate/Doctor Certificate for Age Verification.
3. Experience Certificate to Be Obtained From a Registered Engineer/contractor/association/trade Union, Serving as Evidence of Being a Construction Worker.
4. Details Related to Construction Work/worksite.
5. Proof of Blood Group (Medical Health Card or Laboratory Certificate).
6. Two Passport-size Photographs.
7. Ration Card.
8. Aadhaar Card.
9. Bank Details.
10. Family Particulars/status and Nomination Details of the Beneficiaries.
11. Certificate From the Revenue Department or Social Welfare Department or Anganwadi Officials of the Respective Area.

For Application
For Application
Original Birth Certificate.
Discharge Slip.
Last Subscription Bill.
Board ID Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Bank Details.
