Funeral Assistance Scheme (PBAOCWWB)
Puducherry
ConstructionDBTDeathFinancial AssistanceFuneralWorker
Details
The "Funeral Assistance" is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, the Board may sanction an amount of ₹7,000/- to the nominees/dependents of the deceased Construction Worker towards funeral expenses. The applicant should be submitted within two months from the date of death of the Construction Worker.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹7,000/- credited within 7 days through DBT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the nominee/dependent of the deceased Construction Worker.
The Construction Worker should have been a citizen of India.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have been registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have completed the age of 18 years.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should not have completed the age of 60 years during the preceding 12 months in the construction work.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should have contributed regularly to the fund.
The deceased, in his/her lifetime, should not have defaulted in payment of contribution to the Board for a continuous period of more than one year.
Application Process
Offline
Application
Step 1: The nominee of the deceased should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The nominee of the deceased should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section "Application for Welfare Benefits" on Page No. 77 of the Citizen's Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The nominee of the deceased should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The application should be submitted within two months from the date of death of the Construction Worker.
Documents Required
For Registration
1. Duly Filled and Signed Application Form.
2. Birth Certificate/Transfer Certificate/Doctor Certificate for Age Verification.
3. Experience Certificate to Be Obtained From a Registered Engineer/contractor/association/trade Union, Serving as Evidence of Being a Construction Worker.
4. Details Related to Construction Work/worksite.
5. Proof of Blood Group (Medical Health Card or Laboratory Certificate).
6. Two Passport-size Photographs.
7. Ration Card.
8. Aadhaar Card.
9. Bank Details.
10. Family Particulars/status and Nomination Details of the Beneficiaries.
11. Certificate From the Revenue Department or Social Welfare Department or Anganwadi Officials of the Respective Area.

For Application
Original Last Subscription Bill.
Original Board ID Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Burial Permission Letter.
Death Certificate.
Nominees Aadhaar.
Ration Card.
Bank Pass Book.
