Cash Benefit Scheme Scheme (PBAOCWWB)
Puducherry
CollegeEducationSchoolStudent
Details
The "Cash Benefit Scheme" is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to provide educational financial assistance to the wards of construction workers who have secured the top three ranks at the State Level and Regional Level in the Higher Secondary course or its equivalent examinations. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the nominee/ dependent. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
State-Level Cash Benefit (Onetime Payment)
a) First Prize: ₹1,00,000.
b) Second Prize: ₹80,000.
c) Third Prize: ₹60,000.

Region Wise Cash Benefit (Onetime Payment)
a) First Prize: ₹60,000.
b) Second Prize: ₹40,000.
c) Third Prize: ₹20,000.

Annual Educational Assistance
a) Degree Courses: ₹2,000.
b) Post Graduate Courses: ₹4,000.
c) Diploma courses: ₹2,000.
d) Postgraduate Diploma: ₹3,000.

Mode of Disbursal
Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be a ward of a Construction Worker.
The Construction Worker should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have secured 1st/2nd/3rd Rank at the State/Regional Level in the Higher Secondary course or its equivalent examination.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The ward of the construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The ward of the construction worker should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section "Application for Welfare Benefits" on Page No. 94 of the Citizen's Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The ward of the construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Last Subscription Bill.
Board ID Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Bank Pass Book.
Caste Certificate.
Birth Certificate of the Student.
Higher Secondary or equivalent Public Examination Mark Certificate attested by the Principal/Head of the Institution.
