Promotion of Energy Audit and Conservation of Energy (PEACE): Training Programme
Tamil Nadu
AuditBusinessEnergyMSMETraining
Details
"Promotion of Energy Audit and Conservation of Energy (PEACE)" is a scheme by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme comprises four main components: Awareness Programme; Training Programme; Detailed Energy Audit; and Implementation of Energy Audit Recommendations. The "Training Programme" component of this scheme is introduced to enable MSMEs to establish the systems and processes necessary to improve energy performance, and energy efficiency, and help reduce energy consumption and costs. The training will be organized by GM, DICs/ RJD, Chennai in coordination with MSMEs Associations, Product Associations, Clusters, and other Stakeholders.

Benefits
Programme Content
The participants will be exposed to how an effective Energy Management System (EnMS) can help their organization improve energy efficiency, reduce costs, and lower greenhouse gas emissions.
A tailor-made training program conforming to the requirements of MSMEs/ clusters must be designed. Programs could especially be fashioned around utilities and systems that a particular industry is dealing with on a day-to-day basis.
For example, energy audit and conservation in electrical systems like maximum demand control, power factor control servo motors, transformers, pumps, fans, air-conditioning units, chillers, DG sets, lighting systems, air compressors, etc. and thermal systems like boilers, furnaces, driers, thermic fluid systems, heat exchangers, steam systems, etc.
Programme Duration
The course will be for 3 - 4 days, based on the need and requirement.
Wherever possible training may be organized sector-wise / cluster-wise / product-wise.
Training Faculty
The training faculty may preferably be drawn from organizations such as the Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), India SME Tech Services Ltd. (SIDBI), and the National Productivity Council (NPC), etc., which Government Departments promote.
However, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) accredited Energy Auditors/ Managers with rich experience in energy audits, energy management & conservation, and BEE empanelled Energy audit firms/Cos., may also be engaged. Experience sharing by other enterprises must also be encouraged.
Fund Allocation
At least one training programme in each district at a cost not exceeding ₹ 75,000/- per training programme
Eligibility
The target group of participants for the training programme is Employees, Engineers, and executives of MSMEs, that are willing to undertake the energy audit.
The ideal batch size will be 20 - 25.
In the case of organizing cluster/ sector-focused programs, MSMEs from neighboring districts may also be included. 
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu. In the top ribbon, click "Login / Registration".
In the registration form, fill in the mandatory details accurately, Name, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Number, Email ID, and Mobile Number. Create a new password. The password must contain a minimum of 8 characters, 1 Upper Case Letter, 1 Lower Case Letter, and 1 Numeric Field.
Fill in the captcha code, and click "Register".

Step 2: Login
Visit the Login Page and click "Login", and then fill in the credentials received on your registered Email ID and the registered Mobile Number.

Step 3: Form Filling
After successfully logging in, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click on the concerned scheme from the dropdown.
On the next page, hover over "Apply Online" in the top ribbon, and then click on "New Application" from the dropdown.
Fill in all the mandatory fields of the Application Form. Carefully review all the information provided, acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy, and then click "Proceed".
Note down the reference number appearing on the screen and then click "Close".

Step 4: Upload Documents
Now, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click "Upload Documents" from the dropdown.
On the next page, provide the Application ID and click "Submit".
On the next page, upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size.
After uploading the documents, click "View" to verify the documents uploaded for correctness.

Step 5: Submission
Fill in all the checkboxes appearing at the bottom of the screen and then click "Submit Application".
The message regarding the submission of the online application to GM/DIC / RJD will be received on your mobile phone.

(Optional) Step 6: Track Application Status
You can check the status of your application here. The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.
Documents Required
Copy of Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum / Copy of Udyam Certificate.
Certificate of Registration under Indian Partnership Act / LLP / Societies Registration Act / Certificate of Incorporation [Memorandum of Association & Article of Association] under Company Act.
Proof for Connected Load i.e., EB Meter Card/Online Statement.
If an Alternate Source of Energy [other than Electricity] is Used, Proof for the Usage.
Documents for Engagement of Energy Auditor/Letter of Acceptance from Energy Auditor.
If the Energy Auditor is Employed in a Firm/Co., or Partner or Director of a Firm/Co., Then Proof for the Same.
Copy of Accreditation of Energy Auditor by Bureau of Energy Efficiency [BEE].
Self-Certified Statement on Expenditure Incurred for Energy Audit with Copy of the Bills/Vouchers and Receipt, etc.
Copy of the Detailed Energy Audit Report.
*The file type should be PDF (.pdf). The file size should be less than 200 kb.
