"SUPER 30" Scheme
Tripura
CoachingEducationJEENEETSchoolStudent
Details
The scheme "Super 30" was launched by the Directorate of Secondary Education, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to provide free coaching for JEE/ NEET to the students who are appearing in the class 10th Board Final Examination and want to pursue Science Stream in Class 11th & 12th with the aspiration to crack the JEE / NEET exam.

Benefits
The scheme covers the coaching fees (capped at ₹1,00,000/-) & the accommodation fees of ₹1,40,000/- per annum (with 5% extra in 2nd year), for attaining a two-year coaching programme for JEE/ NEET at a nationally reputed Coaching Institution outside Tripura.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura. 
The applicant should be a student.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Tribe (ST)/ Scheduled Caste (SC)/ Person with Disability (PH) community.
The student should have passed the class-10th Pre-Board/ Pre-Test Exam from the government-recognized school of Tripura with 50% marks.
The applicant should be appearing for the class 10th board final exam.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹1,00,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 1: Applicant should visit the official website, and click on “Have An Account”.
Step 2: Click on “New Account”. Provide your phone number and fill in the captcha code in the designated field. An OTP will be generated and sent to the registered phone number.
Step 3: Enter the OTP into the application to verify your phone number.
Step 4: Once your phone number is verified, you'll be prompted to create a password for your account. Choose a strong and secure password.
Application Process: 
Step 1: Log in to the application using your registered phone number and the newly created password.
Step 2: You'll be directed to the registration page again. Navigate to the registration section of the application.
Step 3: Fill in all the required details in the registration form accurately, and submit the registration form.
Step 4 (Optional): Once your registration is successfully submitted, you may have the option to print the application form for your records or further processing.
Documents Required
Original Income Certificate issued by the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM)/ Deputy Commissioner of Magistrate (DCM). 
Online generated Selection Test Admit Card. 
Class X Board final mark sheet (60% and above marks applicable) including production of original marksheets. 
SC/ ST/ PH Certificate (if any). 
Permanent Resident Tripura Certificate (PRTC).
Any other document, as required.
