Scheme of Giving Awards to Eminent Artists - Kalai Sudarmani Award
Tamil Nadu
ArtistsAwardCultureFinancial Assistance
Details
The "Scheme of Giving Awards to Eminent Artists - Kalai Sudarmani Award" scheme by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme's objective is to promote and preserve the culture of Tamil Nadu. The selected artists are awarded financial assistance ₹10,000/- and certificates of appreciation. The scheme is being implemented in all Districts of Tamil Nadu.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹10,000/-.
Certificate of Appreciation.
A shawl worth ₹500/-.
5 eminent artists are awarded every year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artist.
The age of the applicant should be between 36 to 50 years. 
Application Process
Offline
To Register on the Website:
Step 1: Applicant visits the official website. 
Step 2: Click on 'Artist Registration' then 'Individual Fine Arts.
Step 3: Fill in the mandatory fields such as Name and Mobile number.
Step 4: Upon entering your mobile number, you will receive an OTP for verification. Verify your mobile number to proceed.
Step 5: Establish a password and input the provided verification code (CAPTCHA).
Step 6: Log in to your account upon successful verification.

Artist Registration Procedure:
Step 7: Return to 'Artist Registration' and choose 'Individual Fine Arts'.
Step 8: Complete the 'Artist Individual Registration' form with the necessary details.
Step 9: Upload the Artist's photo, relevant documents, and photos of artworks.
Step 10: Optionally, provide the link to your YouTube channel if available.
Step 11: Enter your bank details and complete the CAPTCHA verification.
Step 12: Click on 'Submit'. Upon successful submission, you will receive a 'Reference Number'.

Post-Registration:
Step 1: Access 'Registered Artist' and select 'Individual Fine Arts.'
Step 2: Download your issued I-card.

Application Process:
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the district office (Page No. 12) of the Assistant Director, Regional Cultural Centre and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Director, Regional Cultural Centre.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
3 Photographs.
Bio-Data.
Degree Certificate.
Copy of Family Card or Voter ID Card.
A copy of the School Replacement Certificate or a Bust Photograph should be attached (in case of absence of a School Replacement Certificate).
Copy of Proof of Artistic Ability.
Current Age Proof as per Family Card.
