Haryana Provision of Sports Equipment Scheme
Haryana
EquipmentGrantPanchayatSports
Details
"Haryana Provision of Sports Equipment Scheme" by the Sports Department, Government of Haryana provides sports equipment to Gram Panchayats and Municipal bodies to encourage youngsters in the state towards sports such as Volleyball, Football, Basketball, Handball, Boxing, Wrestling, Judo, Cricket. To receive the benefits, proper Field of Play (FoP) for the requisite sport should be available in the town/ village.

Benefits

Name of the Sport  Eligible Equipment
Volleyball Up to 06 Balls and Net (if poles are installed)
Football Up to 06 Balls and Net (if poles are installed)
Basketball Up to 06 Balls (if poles are installed)
Handball
  Up to 06 Balls and Net (if poles are installed)
Boxing Up to 06 Punching Bags and 12 pairs of gloves.
Wrestling Mats size length 1 meter x width 2 meters & thickness 5 cm. (18-piece Mats) with cover.
Judo Mats size length 1 meter x width 2 meters & thickness 5 cm. (18-piece Mats) with cover.
Cricket One kit includes 02 bats, 02 sets of wickets with stumps, 06 balls, two pairs of batting pads and gloves and one pair of wicket-keeping pads and gloves. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Municipal Body/Gram Panchayat of Haryana.
Field of Play (FOP) should be available in the town/village for the expected play.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the latest photographs of the Field of Play, mention the date & location on the photograph, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Sports Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement District Sports Officer. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).

NOTE 1: In the case of Municipal Body application will be submitted by the concerned ward member/counsellor.
NOTE 2: In the case of Gram Panchayat, the Sarpanch of the village may apply. In case of a vacancy for the post of Sarpanch, Gram Sachiv may apply. 
Documents Required
Latest photographs of the Field of Play, mentioning the date & location on the photograph. 
