Mukhyamantri Konya Atmonirbhor Yojana
Tripura
DegreeGirlScootyStudent
Details
The scheme "Mukhyamantri Konya Atmonirbhor Yojana" was launched by the Directorate of Higher Education, Government of Tripura. The meritorious girls studying in the 1st semester of a course in the General Degree Colleges in Tripura are provided with a free Scooty for travelling to their College. The aspiring student should apply as per the prescribed format to the Higher Education Department of Tripura through the College she is enrolled in.

Benefits
A free Scooty for the purpose of travelling to their College.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura. 
The applicant should be a girl.    
The applicant should be a student.
The parents/guardians of the applicant should be a native of Tripura or have a continuous residence in Tripura for not less than ten years.
The applicant should be studying in the 1st semester of a course at the General Degree College in Tripura.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the college staff.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Principal / Principal-In-Charge of their college. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
12th grade (High School+2) Marksheet. 
Passport-size photo.
Birth certificate / Madhyamik Admit Card.
Permanent Resident Tripura Certificate (PRTC).
Income Certificate (Issued by Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM)/ Deputy Commissioner of Magistrate (DCM)/ Competent Authority.
Guardian's Address Proof.
Front page bank passbook of the applicant.
Disability Certificate, (If applicable)
Any other document, as required.
