Private Tuition Assistance to Scheduled Caste Students Studying in Standard 11th & 12th (General Stream)
Gujarat
CoachingFinancial AssistanceGeneral StreamPrivate TuitionSCStudent
Details
The “Private Tuition Assistance to Scheduled Caste Students Studying in Standard 11th & 12th (General Stream)” is implemented by the Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to Scheduled Caste (SC) students who are studying in Standard 11th and 12th (General Stream) and have obtained 75% or more marks in the 10th Standard for private coaching fees, as per merit prepared at state level up to 100 students.

Benefits
Assistance Details:
• Standard 11th: ₹8,000/- per annum as a private tuition fees
• Standard 12th: ₹4,000/- per annum as a private tuition fees
Eligibility
The student should belong to the Scheduled Caste of Gujarat.
The student should be studying in Standard 11th & 12th General Stream.
The student should have 75% or more marks in Standard 10th.
The annual family income of the student should be up to ₹4.50 lakhs.
Note: Assistance is given to the first 100 eligible students based on merit.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, the students need to visit the nearest Office of the District Deputy Director (SCW) or Director, Scheduled Caste Welfare Office, Gandhinagar.
Step 02: The application form may be collected from the concerned office.
Step 03: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and attach all the mandatory documents.
Step 04: Submit the application form along with the documents to the concerned office.
Documents Required
1. Passport size photo
2. Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
3. 10th Class Marksheet
4. Caste Certificate from the Competent Authorities
5. First Page of Bank Passbook/Cancelled Cheque
6. Income Certificate (Competent Authority)
7. Other Marksheets/Last Year Marksheet (If Any)
8. Fee Receipt of Current Course Year
9. Any other documents as required
