Scheme for Giving Financial Assistance to the Legal Heirs of the Deceased Artist (Wife/Husband) on the Death of the Indigent Artist Who Was Receiving Financial Assistance
Tamil Nadu
ArtistCrisisDeathFinancial AssistanceHeir
Details
The "Scheme for Giving Financial Assistance to the Legal Heirs of the Deceased Artist (Wife/Husband) on the Death of the Indigent Artist who was Receiving Financial Assistance" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. Through this scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- is given to the eligible legal heir (wife/husband) of the deceased artist.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹3,000/- per month. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be the legal heir (wife/husband) of the deceased.
The deceased should have been an artist.
The deceased should have been receiving financial assistance through the scheme " Scheme of Financial Assistance to Indigent Artistes" by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu.
The deceased should have been 58 years or older.
The benefit of the scheme will be given only on the death of the indigent artist. 
The deceased should have professionally served for the enrichment of any one of the art disciplines or more such as music, dance, drama, film, folk arts, etc.
The annual income of the deceased artist or their legal spouse should not have exceeded ₹12,000/-. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Commissioner of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Commissioner, Directorate of Art and Culture, Thendral, Dr. D.G.S. Dinakaran Road, Chennai - 600 028.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
3 Photographs of the Legal Heir, attested by the Tahsildar.
Specimen Signature of the Incumbent.
Legal Heir Certificate.
Proof Establishing the Relationship between the Deceased and the Applicant.
Income Certificate. 
Death Certificate of the Indigent Artist.
Copy of the authorisation issued by the Accountant General.
Details regarding the last payment from the Treasury concerned.
Any other document, if required. 
