Grant of Incentive to the Family having One Girl/Two Girl Children and Parents who have undergone Family Planning
Puducherry
ChildFamilyFinancial AssistanceGirlGrantIncentive
Details
The scheme "Grant of Incentive to the Family having One Girl/Two Girl Children and Parents who have undergone Family Planning" is a financial assistance scheme by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme aims to create awareness among parents about the desirability of the girl child and elevate the status of the girl child in the family. The scheme provides an amount of ₹30,000/- deposited in the name of the girl child, and in the case of two girl children, ₹15,000/- is deposited in the name of each. The maturity value is given to the girl child/children when she attains the age of 18 years.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹30,000/- for one girl child, and ₹15,000/- for each of two girl children.
The incentive amount is deposited in the name of the girl child/children and matures when the child reaches 18 years of age.
Eligibility
The parents should be citizens of India.
Either of the parents should be a native of Puducherry by virtue of birth or continuous residence of not less than five years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹75,000/- per annum.
The age of the parents should not be below 21 years for the father and 18 years for the mother at the time of their marriage.
Either of the parents should have undergone Family Planning in a Central/State Government Hospital/ Private (Registered).
The parents should have only one girl child/two girl children.
The marriage of the applicant should be registered in the Registration Department/Municipality/Commune Panchayat.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Certificate of Marriage Registration of Parents.
Certificate of Sterilization of Either of the Parents.
Age Proof (Birth Certificate / TC) of Parents.
Certificate of Birth of Girl Child/Children.
Copy of the Family Ration Card & Election ID.
Photograph of the Family.
Aadhar Card of Parents and Children.
Ration Card.
Recent Passport Size Photograph.
Sterilization Certificate.
Voter ID Card of Father.
Voter ID Card of Mother.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Number; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
