Scheme of Grant-In-Aid for Conduct of Art Exhibitions: Group Shows
Tamil Nadu
ArtistExhibitionFinancial AssistanceGrant
Details
The "Scheme of Grant-In-Aid for Conduct of Art Exhibitions: Group Shows" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to encourage talented artists in the field of painting, and sculpture by granting a sum of ₹50,000/- to the groups of five artists for conducting "Group Shows" art exhibitions. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹50,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a group of artists.
The artists should be natives of Tamil Nadu by continuous residence for not less than 5 years.
The artists should have continuous involvement in their field of painting and sculpture.
The artists should possess an adequate number of artworks for the conduct of their show.
Participation in National or State level Art Exhibitions and Artists Camps will be considered as an additional qualification.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu (Tamil Nadu Fine Arts Academy) and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents either directly or by post to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Oviya Nunkalai Kuzhu, Directorate of Art and Culture, Dr. D.G.S. Dinakaran Road, (Greenways Road) Chennai - 600 028
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Bio-Data of the Artists.
Passport-sized Photographs of the Artists.
Photographs of Artworks of the Artists.
Copies of Press Cuttings (if any) published in Newspapers/Journals on their Artistic Talents.
