Scheme for Grant of Financial Assistance to Industrial Workers/Employee for Purchase of Spectacles
Goa
EmployeeEyesSpectacleVisionWorker
Details
The "Scheme for Grant of Financial Assistance to Industrial Workers/Employee for Purchase of Spectacles" by the Goa Labour Welfare Board, Department of Labour and Employment, Goa, aims to provide financial aid to industrial workers/employees for acquiring spectacles. Through this scheme, assistance is extended to enhance the vision of eligible workers.

Benefits
A financial assistance of up to ₹2,000 is provided to cover the cost of the frame and lens of the spectacle (If the expenses exceed this amount, the worker/employee will have to bear the additional cost).
Replacement of spectacles is allowed only after five years after the initial purchase. However, if the lens power requires a change, replacement can be done after one year, with expenses not exceeding ₹400.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an industrial worker/employee covered under clause (C) of Section 2 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1986.
The applicant should have completed one year of service in the industrial establishment on the date of application, including broken spells of service.
The applicant should get their eyes tested in the State Hospitals or the Goa Medical College or by a qualified Optician.
The applicant should obtain the lens (s) number for the spectacles.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents through their employer to the Secretary, Goa Labour Welfare Board, 4th floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Patto Centre, Panaji, Goa - 403 001.
Documents Required
Cash Receipt for Spectacle Purchase.
Prescription From a Qualified Optician/Doctor.
Certificate of the Medical Officer of the Organisation.
Certificate of the Eye Specialist.
Certificate of Management/Contractor stating the Completion of One Year of Service in the Industrial Establishment.
Any Additional Documents as Required by the Labour Welfare Board (if Applicable).
