Handicrafts Export Award
Tamil Nadu
ExporterFinancial AssistanceHandicraftsManufacturerPrize
Details
The "Handicrafts Export Award" scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, and Khadi Dept, Government of Tamil Nadu. This award is given to encourage the exporters of handicraft items with a cash prize of ₹40,000/-, 4 gm gold medal, Thamirapattiram & a certificate. The exporter can apply offline for this award through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.

Benefits
Cash Prize of ₹40,000/-.
4gm Gold Medal.
Thamirapattiram.
Certificate. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu. 
The applicant should be a manufacturer of handicrafts in Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be an exporter of Tamil Nadu Handicrafts.
The applicant should be a direct exporter.
The exporter should not be banned by Govt.
Application Process
Offline
Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Address Proof.
Front Page of Bank Passbook.
Proof of Direct Exporter.
Address Proof of Tamil Nadu Craftsman.
Copy of Purchase Order Letter.
Export/Import License Copy.
Registration Copy of Export Development Corporation of Handicrafts (EPCH)/Development Commissioner (Handicrafts)/Districts Industrial Center.
Photocopies of Export Documents of the Craftsman (last 3 years).
Craftsman's Self-Attestation Affidavit of ₹20/- Stamp Paper. 
