Swachh Bharat Mission – Grameen PHASE I
Ministry Of Jal Shakti
GrameenRuralSanitationSwachh BharatToilet
Details
To accelerate the efforts to achieve universal sanitation coverage and to put the focus on sanitation, the Prime Minister of India had launched the Swachh Bharat Mission on 2nd October 2014. Under the mission, all villages, Gram Panchayats, Districts, States and Union Territories in India declared themselves "open-defecation free" (ODF) by 2 October 2019, the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, by constructing over 100 million toilets in rural India. To ensure that the open defecation free behaviours are sustained, no one is left behind, and that solid and liquid waste management facilities are accessible, the Mission is moving towards the next Phase II of SBMG i.e ODF-Plus. ODF Plus activities under Phase II of Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) will reinforce ODF behaviours and focus on providing interventions for the safe management of solid and liquid waste in villages.

The Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) launched on 2nd October, 2014, by modifying the erstwhile Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan (NBA), is a community-led and people-oriented program aimed at universalizing safe sanitation. Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) is the only sanitation programme implemented by the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation (now Ministry of Jal Shakti).
Financial support of Rs - 12,000 for APL and BPL Rural households  including storage for handwashing and cleaning of the toilet
Payment of incentives may be in cash or in the form of construction materials or credit vouchers for such materials.

Activities under the Scheme:

Construction of Individual Household Latrines (IHHL)
Construction of Community Sanitary Complexes (CSCs).
Solid Liquid Waste Management (SLWM) activities.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) 
Human Resource Development (HRD) activities.


Order of Preference

BPL
APL 
SC/ST
Persons with disability
 Widow/old age pensioners
Landless labourers with homestead
Small farmers
Marginal farmers
Women headed households

Benefits
Benefits
The Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) launched on 2nd October, 2014, by modifying the erstwhile Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan (NBA), is a community-led and people-oriented program aimed at universalizing safe sanitation. Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) is the only sanitation programme implemented by the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation (now Ministry of Jal Shakti).
Financial support of Rs - 12,000 for APL and BPL Rural households  including storage for handwashing and cleaning of the toilet
Payment of incentives may be in cash or in the form of construction materials or credit vouchers for such materials.

Activities under the Scheme:

Construction of Individual Household Latrines (IHHL)
Construction of Community Sanitary Complexes (CSCs).
Solid Liquid Waste Management (SLWM) activities.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) 
Human Resource Development (HRD) activities.
Eligibility
This scheme is for any rural household that does not have access to an individual household toilet.
Application Process
Offline
Online
The construction of household toilets may be undertaken by:
 the individual beneficiaries themselves with support from agencies.
Community Model through agencies in the village. 

Note:
States may also decide to give the incentive to the individuals, or to communities where the model is adopted to trigger the demand in GPs/Blocks/Districts, or to the Gram Panchayats on the achievement of community objectives.
Any incentive for the IHHL, provided to the community/GP, if given, shall be used only for sanitation activities.
Verification : Government shall ensure that the quality of toilet is maintained through sample physical verification through its officers


Apply Now
Documents Required
Indicative Documents
Aadhar Number
Bank Account Detail* - Passbook
 Photograph*
