Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Evam Kaushal Sanvardhan Yojna -RS-CIT
Rajasthan
ComputerEducationEmpoweredTraining
Details
 Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Evam Kaushal Sanvardhan Yojna Started on 20-12-2020 under the Women and Child Development Department Rajasthan State Government is to make the girls and women of the state empower in the field of computers by providing free computer courses to them. As we all know, in the present times, the use of computers is increasing rapidly. In most of the departments, all the work in government and private companies is being done digitally. 
In such a situation, this decision of the  Rajasthan government is very important for the girls and women of the state. According to this scheme, women get computer knowledge for free. By doing this, they can become self-reliant and empowered, thus their future will also be bright, this has been the main objective of the Rajasthan Government under the Indira Mahila Shakti Prashikshan Kaushal Samvardhan Yojana.

Out of the allotted seats, Scheduled Caste candidates will be selected on 18% seats and Scheduled Tribe candidates will be selected on 14% seats. In case of non-availability in the concerned category, it can be filled by others.

Benefits
Free basic computer training for women and girls, general information about MS Word, MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, email, etc. is given. Training will be given through RKCL ( Rajasthan Knowledge Corporation Limited).
Eligibility
The applicant is a native citizen of Rajasthan.
Only women of the state will be considered eligible for the scheme.
Only girls and women between the ages of 16 years to 40 years will be considered eligible for the scheme.
Widow/divorced/abandoned women suffering from violence be given priority.
The applicant trainees who have passed class 10th from a government school and are graduates.
The applicant  Anganwadi worker must be a Graduate. 
Application Process
Online
Registration 
Step-1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.  
Step-2: Now enter your Mobile number and enter the Code.
Step-3: Click send OTP, and Enter OTP to confirm.
Step-4: Now you will come to a new page, and read all the instructions before processing.
Step-5: Now "Click here to apply online for RS-CIT Course".
Step-6: Enter your details like
           - District .
           - Tehsil.
           - Preference 1 or 2.
           - Your Name.
           - Father Name .
           - Upload required documents etc.
Step-7: After uploading all your important information and documents, click on submit
Step-8: After applying, an application ID will be received on your mobile or email.

Login
Step-1: Applicants have to visit the official portal.  
Step-2: Now Click on Login 
Step-3: Now enter your application ID
            - Application Name
            - Father Name 
            -  Date of Birth
Step-4: Click on login.
Documents Required
Aadhar card
Identity card
Income certificate
Age certificate
Address proof
Class 10th mark sheet
Copy of the FIR in the case of a woman victim of violence / Domestic Incident Report under the Protection / Copy of the document for registering the case at Women's Safety and Advice Center / Aparajita.
Caste certificate in case of Scheduled Castes and Tribes.
Death certificate of husband in case of widow/talaq deed in case of divorcee/affidavit of desertion in case of deserter.
