DPIIT Internship Scheme
Ministry Of Commerce And Industry
DPIITInternshipPost GraduateResearch ScholarStudentUnder Graduate
Details
Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce & Industry has been implementing internship scheme for the students pursuing Under Graduate/Post Graduate degree or are Research Scholars enrolled in recognized University/Institution within India or abroad. The objective behind the internship scheme is to give exposure to the students to understand the working culture of Govt. of India and exposure to the schemes being run by this Department.
           Students can choose a period of their choice ranging from one month /two months / three months as per their requirements. The applications will be accepted online mode only.

Benefits
Stipend:
Interns would be paid a stipend of ₹10,000/- per month. The processing of payment towards the stipend amount will be initiated after the completion of the internship period.
Number of Interns:
Maximum Number of Interns selected at a time will not be more than 20.
Period of Internship:
The period of Internship shall be minimum one month and maximum three months.
After completing internship, students will be awarded an Experience Certificate.
Those who will not satisfactorily complete the requisite period of internship will not be awarded any certificate or stipend.
Eligibility
Applicants pursuing Graduation/Post Graduation/Research in following domain are eligible to apply:-
Engineering
Management 
Law 
Economics
Finance 
Computers
Library Management
Note 01: Candidates from other domains can also be considered based on requirements on case to case basis.
Note 02: Interns shall be required to submit a brief report/paper at the end of their assignment to the concerned Divisional Head about their learning experience.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: To apply for the Internship, the applicant may submit the application form: https://dpiit.gov.in/internship/internship-scheme.php
Step 02: Fill in the all the mandatory details in the form and agree with terms & conditions.
Step 03: Verify your Mobile Number and Email ID.
Step 04: Click on "Submit".
Selection Procedure:
Step 01: All the applications received through online mode in the Department will be compiled at one place in the Establishment Division.
Step 02: Sections/divisions will send their requirement of “Interns” to Establishment Division.
Step 03: On receipt of a request from Division/Section for intern/s belonging to a particular discipline, the database of the available applications of that discipline will be provided to the concerned Division/section.
Step 04: The concerned Division/section will transparently adopt a procedure and select the student(s) with the approval of the concerned Wing Head (AS/JS/DDG) based on their requirement and inform the same to Estt. G Section. Thereafter, Estt. G Section will obtain approval of Dir/DS (Estt) and send the offer of internship to selected Interns.
Note 01: Online portal on DPIIT’s shall be henceforth open during the period from 1st March to 30th April and 1st September to 31st October of every year for receiving applications from Students for internship.
Note 02: Applications received during the period from 1st March to 30th April shall be considered for internship during the period from June-August of every year. The database of Students who have applied during March- April will be deleted from server in the end of August.
Note 03: Applications received during the period from 1st September- 31st October shall be considered for internship during the period from November to January of every year. The database of Students who have applied during September-October will be deleted from the server in the end of January.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address
Proof of Age/DOB (Class 10th/12th Marksheet)
Proof of Current Educational Qualification
Bank Details (for the payment of stipend)
Any other documents as required
