National Fellowship & Scholarship For Higher Education Of Scheduled Tribe (ST) Students
Ministry Of Tribal Affairs
FellowshipFinancial AssistanceScheduled TribeScholarship
Details
Part-A: Fellowship Scheme
The National Fellowship Scheme is a Central Sector Scheme by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs with the objective to provide financial assistance to meritorious students from Scheduled Tribes to enable them to pursue higher education (M.Phil or Ph.D.) after completing a post-graduate degree (Master's degree).
Salient Features of the Scheme - 
Fellowship under the Scheme will be for pursuing MPhil, Ph.D. by those ST students who have passed the Post-graduation/Master's Degree examination. 
Note: - 
In case, under the national education policy, there is any change in the type of course, the same will be incorporated in the guidelines. 
However, the scholars already covered under the scheme prior to 2021-22, will be allowed to complete the course as per the existing scheme. 
Part-B: Scholarship Scheme
The National Scholarship Scheme is a Central Sector Scheme by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs with the objective to encourage meritorious students from Scheduled Tribes to pursue courses at the Graduate and Post Graduate levels in premier institutes identified by the Ministry in professional fields such as Management, Medicine/Science, Engineering and Technology, Humanities, Law and Social Science, etc.
Salient Features of the Scheme - 
This is a Central Sector Scheme, fully funded by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, and provides 100% funding to Scheduled Tribe (ST) students in courses and institutes approved and notified by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. The scholarship once awarded will continue till completion of the course tenure, subject to satisfactory performance of the student, as assessed by the institute.

Benefits
A. Value of Fellowship:
The applicant selected for the scholarship will be entitled to the stipend as stipulated in the following table subject to fulfillment of conditions laid down in the scheme. 
1. Course: M.Phil
Stream: Humanities & Social Sciences
Scholarship Monthly: Rs.31000/-
Contingency Annually: Rs.10,000/-
2. Course: M.Phil
Stream: Science/Engineering Technology
Scholarship Monthly: Rs.31000/-
Contingency Annually: Rs.12,000/-
3. Course: Ph.D.
Stream: Humanities & Social Sciences
Scholarship Monthly: Rs.31000/- for the first two years and Rs.35000/- for the remaining 3 years
Contingency Annually: Rs.20,500/-
4. Course: Ph.D.
Stream: Science/Engineering Technology
Scholarship Monthly: Rs.31000/- for the first two years and Rs.35000/- for the remaining 3 years
Contingency Annually: Rs.25,000/-
5. HRA for all the courses (monthly): Equal to UGC rates [8% or 16% or 24% based on city]
6. Escort Allowance for Divyanjan (monthly): Rs.2000/- (at par with UGC rates)
The above rates are equal to UGC rates, which may be revised as and when revised by UGC.
HRA
In case a student is provided hostel accommodation by the university, he/she would not be eligible to claim HRA, but will be eligible to draw only hostel fees charged by the University. 
The scholar will not be entitled to claim mess, electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Director/Principal.
If the student makes his/her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by Govt. of India.
Note:-
The research scholars considered eligible for the fellowship under the scheme shall not be eligible for any other fellowship/scholarship of the Union or State Government for the same study.
Release of fellowship will be subject to fulfillment of various requirements stated in subsequent paras.
B. Value of Scholarship:
The selected student will be eligible for financial assistance as stipulated in the following table, subject to fulfillment of conditions laid down in the scheme:
1. Component: Tuition Fees and Admission fee
Details: Full Admission fee, tuition fee, and other non-refundable charges in respect of Government Institutes
Remarks: There will be a ceiling of Rs.2.50 lakhs per annum per student for private sector Institutes.
2. Component: Books & Stationery
Details: @ Rs.5000/- per annum
Remarks: per annum per student without bills/vouchers.
3. Component: Stipend
Details: @ Rs.3000/-per month
Remarks: NA
4. Component: Computer & Accessories
Details: Rs.45000/- (One-time assistance during the course tenure)
Remarks: Computer & accessories may be Desktop/Laptop etc. (Without bills/vouchers)
C. Number of Fellowship:
The total number of fresh fellowships for M.Phil/M.Phil. + PhD/Ph.D every year will be 750. In case of the non-availability of an adequate number of Scheduled Tribe applicants, the number of fellowships not availed during that year will be carried forward to the next academic year. There is no State/University wise ceiling on the number of slots.
In case the number of applicants exceeds the number of available slots for awards, selection will be made on the basis of marks obtained in the post-graduation exam.
Slots will be provided to sub-categories subject to the following priority:
Priority Category Slots:-
a)   Divyangjan [5% of 750] = 38
b)   PVTG (List at Annexure-VIII) = 25
c)   Female [30% of 750] = 225
d)   ST Others = 462
      Total = 750
Note:-
Eligible students who have got an offer of admission in IITs/AIIMS/IIMs/IISER will be given priority and slots meant for the ST-Others category(Sr. No.4 above) will be reduced proportionately.
The students applying as Divyangjan should produce the Disability Certificate, certifying a minimum of 40% disability, issued by the competent authority designated by the respective State/UT.
In case an adequate number of applications is not received for the above subcategories, then the unfilled slots will be allotted to eligible ST research applicants not covered under any of the three categories mentioned above, on the basis of inter-se merit based on post-graduation examination.
D. Procedure for determining slot distribution for sub-category:
Category 1 : Divyangjan : 
38 slots will be reserved for Divyangjan Research scholars, and their selection will be on the basis of merit.
In case of more than 38 applications are received in this category, the top 38 applicants, in the order of merit, will be selected, and the remaining applications will be treated under the normal ST category.
However, if the number of applications received is less than 38, the remaining vacant slots will be filled by the next priority category i.e PVTG. 
Category 2 : PVTG:
25 slots will be reserved for PVTG applicants, and their selection will be on the basis of merit. 
In case, more than 25 applications are received in this category, the top 25 applicants, in the order of merit, will be selected against the allotted slots, and the remaining applications will be treated under the normal ST category. 
However, if the number of applications received is less than 25, the remaining vacant slots will be filled by the next priority category i.e Female.
Category 3 : Female: 
Out of a total of 750, 225 slots will be reserved for female applicants [including Divyangjan and PVTG]. 
In case more than 225 applications [including Divyangjan and PVTG] from female candidates are received in this category, the top 225 applicants, in the order of merit, will be selected against the available slots. 
The remaining applications will be treated under ST open category. 
E. Other Important points:-
In case the number of applications of female candidates is less than 225, the remaining vacant slots will be adjusted with ST's other categories.
The guidelines provide that the student is eligible for a scholarship for regular and full-time M. Phil/Ph.D in the University/Academic Institute. 
However, for pursuing Ph.D. courses in AIIMS/IIMs/IITs/IISERs, where the pre-requisite may be that the students should have financial security in hand before he/she can take admission, preference will be given to those students who have secured offers of admission from AIIMS/IITs/IIMs/IISERs. 
Therefore, the student should mention, in the application form, that he/she has got an offer of admission and should also upload the offer letter issued.
F. Number of Scholarships:
All eligible students who have taken admitted on merit to the identified premier institutes, and are verified by the Institute and Ministry as per the norms of the scheme are eligible to receive scholarships. 
There is no Institute- wise/ State wise/stream-wise ceiling for a number of slots. 
However, students admitted to Management quota in a private Institute will not be entitled to scholarships.
Eligibility
Part-A: Fellowship Scheme
1. Eligibility Criteria and Course Duration
Eligibility:-
(i) Post-Graduation and should have taken admission in the universities covered under the category.
(ii) The candidates should have a minimum of 55% marks at the final examination/grading at the PG level.
(iii) There are no income criteria for eligibility in respect of this scholarship.
(iv) The Maximum Age limit is 36 years, as of the first day of July of the relevant year of the award of the scholarship.
a) Course: M. Phil
Duration: 2 years or the date of dissertation submission, whichever is earlier.
b) Course: M. Phil + Ph.D.
Duration: 2+3 =5 years or date of dissertation submission, whichever is earlier.
c) Course: Ph.D.
Duration: 5 years or the date of dissertation submission, whichever is earlier.
Income Criteria: There are no income criteria for eligibility in respect of this scholarship.
Age limit: Maximum 36 years, as of the first day of July of the relevant year of the award of scholarship.
2. Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme
Eligible students can take admitted for regular and full-time M. Phil/Ph.D courses in the following categories of University / Academic Institutes: -
i. Universities/Institutes/Colleges included under section 2(f)/12(B) or 2(f) and 12(B) of UGC Act. 
ii. Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956, and eligible to receive grant-in-aid from UGC. 
iii. Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges receiving grants by Central/ State Government
iv. Institutes of National Importance, as notified by the Ministry of Higher Education, Government of India.
Part-B: Scholarship Scheme
1. Eligibility Criteria and Course Duration
a) Course: Graduate Level, Post Graduate Level.
b) Duration: Course duration is fixed by the Institutes.
c) Eligibility: ST students who have secured admission in the notified Institutions and courses approved by the Ministry will be eligible for the scholarship under the scheme.
Note:-
Students availing of this scholarship are not eligible to claim the benefit of any other scholarship scheme of the Centre/ State Govt. for the same study. 
The duration of the course varies as per the course selected by the candidate. 
The scholarship, once awarded, will continue till the completion of the course, subject to satisfactory performance as certified by the Institute.
d) Income Criteria: 
The total family income of the student to be eligible for this scholarship from all sources should not exceed ₹6,00,000 per annum. The family income shall be computed in the following manner -: 
In case both father and mother are working, the combined income of both from all sources shall be taken into account in computing total family income. 
In case any other member of the family, other than the father and mother is an earning member, his or her income shall not be included in computing total family income.
In case only one parent is alive, the income of that parent shall be taken into account for considering total parental income. 
If other siblings or family member is an earning member, their income shall not be included in computing total family income.
In the case of an orphan, supported by a guardian, income criteria shall not apply.
In the case of married candidates, the spousal income will also be added to compute total family income.
Note:-
Definition of Income- Income means gross income including income from all sources e.g. Salary, Interest Income, Income from House property, Income from Business, Agricultural income, and Income from any other Sources, etc. It is clarified that Income for the purpose of the scholarship is not taxable Income as defined in Income Tax Act. The deductions and exemptions available in the Income Tax Act u/s 10, Section 80, or any other section will not be available in computing gross Income under the scheme.
Income certificate is required to be taken once only i.e. at the time of admission to courses that are continuing for more than one year. The income certificate should be for the financial year immediately preceding the election year. In the case of salaried employees, Form-16 is accepted. In case of income from other sources, an income certificate issued by the designated authority of the respective State/UT is accepted.
2. Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme: 
The Ministry of Tribal Affairs is authorized to select and notify the list of reputed premier Institutions.
The present list of 252 notified Institutions is given in Annexure- I. 
Students who have been admitted to these notified institutions are not eligible to apply under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme of this Ministry, in order to avoid duplication.
Application Process
Online
I. Fellowship Scheme
A. Registration Process for Digi locker:- (Only for those who have their Digilocker IDs)
The applicant whose account is not on Digi Locker will have to first register his/her new account by clicking on the “Register on Digi Locker” button through Aadhaar. 
Process for Sign in : By clicking on Sign in button, where the applicant will be asked to enter Aadhaar number and click on Next button. 
Enter Aadhaar number along with a security Pin code (6 digit) by yourself and remember it for further use and click on submit button. Then your Digi locker account will open. 
Issued Document: Click “Issue document” for searching documents already linked by the issued authority.
Drive (Uploaded Document): if any related document is not available in the issued document list, upload the scanned document under the section “Drive”. 
B. Registration Process for National Tribal Fellowship Portal:-
The candidate is required to register him/herself in the portal at http://fellowship.tribal.gov.in with valid e-mail id and Mobile Number. 
After clicking on New Registration Student Registration tab, the registration form will open. 
Applicant has to register in the portal through Aadhaar. 
The applicant should enter Name, Date of Birth, Gender and Aadhaar Number as per his/her Aadhaar card and click validate button. 
Applicant will receive OTP message on registered mobile Number and email id mentioned during registration process. 
Now applicant is required to enter OTP and Captcha code in the given text box and click at submit button. 
The applicant will get confirmation message as “Your registration completed successfully” after entering & submission of correct OTP. 
Email id of applicant now registered and can be used as the user-id for Login in fellowship and for grievances portal. 
C. National Tribal Fellowship For ST Students Application Form Submission process:-
The candidate is required to fill the application form on https://fellowship.tribal.gov.in/ with all necessary information and documents. 
Enter email Id, password and valid captcha code on https://fellowship.tribal.gov.in/Login.aspx. 
Application form will be displayed to fill information. Click on Apply/View NFS Application to fill -up current year’s application.
Enter Personal Information, Student’s Address Details, Candidate’s Status, Post Graduation Details, Aggregate % of Marks, Current University, College Course with Stream, Department and Supervisors Details. Click on “Save & Next” button at every stage.
Candidate Documents: Candidate can fetch the document from the Digilocker by clicking on “Fetch Documents from Digi Locker for linking.” Login in Digilocker through applicant’s Aadhaar is mandatory. 
 It will redirect the applicant to the Digi locker window, then applicants have to sign in and click on “allow” button to get the documents from the Digi-locker. 
After clicking allow button, applicant will get the access for the section of “Issued Documents” and “Uploaded documents” on the application form. 
To “Retrieve issued document” applicant needs to click on Retrieve button. 
Declaration by the Applicant: Click on “Submit” button for final submission of the Application. 
Note:-
No information can be updated/edited, after submission of application.
After successful submission of application, the applicant needs to approach University/Institute nodal officer for verification of application. 
Only after verification of details entered in the application & original documents by the University/Institute, the application will be considered for next section process as valid application.
Otherwise, the application will be rejected. 
II: Scholarship Scheme
A. Online Application through Portal:
Applications are invited, processed, and approved and the scholarship is disbursed through the National Scholarship Portal (https://scholarships.gov.in/) developed by (the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology). 
Students after taking admission for various courses in the notified Universities/Institutes will submit the application online in the above-mentioned portal for the scholarship. 
The date of opening and closing of the portal will be given due publicity through print and electronic media and through Institutes and States. 
The tentative dates of opening and closing of the portal will be advertised in the National Scholarship Portal every year (as decided by DBT Mission). 
Students are advised to keep watch on the portal for the opening of the application process. 
The applications submitted after the cut-off date and time shall not be entertained/ considered.
B. Registration Process: 
Before filling online application form, Candidates are required to register themselves on the online portal. 
Students are advised to carefully go through the “Guidelines for Registration on National Scholarship Portal” before initiating the registration process.
Apply Now
Documents Required
Part-A: Fellowship Scheme
Profile Photo {size: -50 KB-100 KB} – JPEG file only.
Date of Birth Proof [10th Passing certificate/10th Marksheet /School leaving Certificate/ 10th Examination Admit card, which must contain Date of Birth]- PDF file only.
Post-Graduation Marksheet (All Semesters and consolidated by merging the documents) – PDF file only.
Conversion factor formulae certificate issued from your university/Institutes [In case of marks are in CGPA/SGPA] -PDF file only.
ST certificate [Community name should match with drop down list of domiciles States/UTs] – PDF file only.
PWD Certificate [issued by Competent Authority if candidate applying as Divyangjan] – PDF file only.
PVTG Certificate [Community of PVTG name should match with drop down list of domiciles States/UTs PVTG list] – PDF file only.
Bonafede Certificate of admission/ joining for Ph.D. / Integrated M.Phil.+ Ph.D. - PDF file only.
Note:-
The above documents should be in the applicant’s Digi locker ID (https://www.digilocker.gov.in/)either in issued documents section or in Digi locker Drive.
Part-B: Scholarship Scheme
Following documents are required to be uploaded on the portal while filling the application online on National Scholarship Portal (NSP):-
1. Document: ST Certificate / PVTG Certificate
Fresh Candidate: Yes
Renewal Candidate: No
Remarks: The caste Certificate is required to be signed and stamped by the competent authority.
2. Document: Income Certificate
Fresh Candidate: Yes
Renewal Candidate: No
Remarks: Income Certificate for the FY preceding the year of selection issued by the designated authority by the respective state/UT. 
3. Document: Fee Receipt
Fresh Candidate: Yes
Renewal Candidate: Yes
Remarks: NA
4. Document: Scanned copy of the bank passbook
Fresh Candidate: Yes
Renewal Candidate: Yes
Remarks: The student name on the passbook should match the name mentioned in the application form
5. Document: Mark sheet/Certificate of qualifying examination
Fresh Candidate: Yes
Renewal Candidate: Yes
Remarks: For fresh Candidates: Graduate level course: 12th standard; Postgraduate level course: Graduation
For renewal Candidate: Last passing [semester] mark sheet
6. Document: Bonafede Certificate issued from the Institute
Fresh Candidate: Yes
Renewal Candidate: Yes
Remarks: NA
