Maternity Assistance for the Construction Workers
Delhi
Construction WorkersFinancial AssistanceLabourMaternityMedical Support
Details
The "Maternity Assistance for the Construction Workers" by the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Delhi, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Through this scheme, maternity benefits of ₹ 30,000/- is provided to the registered women members and wives of male members for upto 2 children from the date of joining membership of the fund.

Benefits
₹30,000/- is provided to the registered women members and wives of male members for upto 2 children from the date of joining membership of the fund.
Eligibility
For Registration
The applicant should be a resident of Delhi.
The applicant should be a Building/Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For Application
Registered women member Under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board .
Or,
Wives of registered male members Under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant shall be eligible to avail the benefits only for their first 2 children.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Register Now”.
Step 2: Enter the following mandatory details: Aadhaar Card Number, Name as on Aadhar Card, Mobile Number, Date of Birth (as on Aadhar Card), Gender, etc. Create a password and confirm it. Click “Register”. You will be redirected to the registration page.
Step 3: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Father Name, Mother Name, Photograph, Applicant’s Video, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 4: On the next page, enter the mandatory details regarding your work/workplace (Previous/Current Employer Details, Proof of 90 Days Employment, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 5: Click on “Add Family Members” to avail the benefits of various schemes.
Step 6: In the next window, add your Bank Account details.
Step 7: In the next window, upload your Aadhaar Card, Address Proof, Birth Proof, Employment Proof, Bank Account details etc.
Step 8: In the next window, the "Affidavit of the Applicant" will be displayed. Verify all the details, and click on the checkbox.
Step 9: Proceed for the online registration fee of ₹25/- through a Debit Card/ Internet Banking/ UPI.
Step 10: Enter the OTP received on your registered mobile number to apply. Note down the Application Number for future reference. Download the acknowledgement receipt.
Track Your Application
Visit the homepage of the website regularly and click on "Track Your Application" to check the status of your application.
Application
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Apply for Scheme”.
Step 2: Log in through Aadhaar Number/ Registration Card/ OTP.
Step 3: Apply for the “Maternity Assistance” scheme.

Helpline Number (24x1) : 011-41236600
DBOCWWB Department
Number (office hours: 9:30AM - 6:00PM) : 011-23813846
Documents Required
In case of Delivery at Hospital:
Birth certificate of the Child (duly issued by any Municipal/Govt. Authority),
Discharge summary/Medical Certificate (to be obtained from medical officer not below the rank of an Assistant Surgeon).
In case of Emergency Delivery at Home:
Birth certificate of the Child (duly issued by any Municipal/Govt. Authority),
Proof of visiting a Hospital/Nursing Home in connection with the pregnancy in the pregnancy period,
Photocopy of any ID proof of Aaya/Dai.
