Education Assistance for the Construction Workers
Delhi
Construction WorkersDistant LearningFinancial AssistanceGraduationITILabourLLBOpen LearningPolytechnicScholarshipSchoolStudents
Details
The "Education Assistance for the Construction Workers" by the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Delhi, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. The objective of the scheme is to provide scholarships to the students studying in various classes  for enabling them to bear the expenses required for their studies,

Benefits

Sl. No Class/Level Quantum of Assistance (Per Month)
1. Class 1 to 8 ₹ 500/-
2. Class 9 to 10 ₹ 700/-
3. Class 11 to 12 ₹ 1,000/- 
4. Graduation level ₹ 3,000/-
5. ITI Course ₹ 4,000/-
6. L.LB. Course (5 Years) ₹ 4,000/-
7. L.LB Course (3 years) ₹ 3,000/- 
8. Polytechnic Diploma ₹ 5,000/-
9. Technical Course such as Engineering, Medical, MBA ₹ 10,000/-
10. 
Distance education/ open learning school/ College/ private study and obtains certificate from recognized School /College /institution
75% of the grant allowed for regular study. Financial assistance will be provided only one time for any graduation level course.

Note:
Scholarships are provided upto 2 nominated children of Registered and Live Member of the Board, after the completion of year of study.
Financial assistance for 1, 2 and 3 above shall be available to members from the date of their registration with the Board.
Financial assistance for 4 to 10 above shall be available to members who have membership for more than one year.
In case a Beneficiary dies his/her children will be still given financial assistance upto Class-VIII.
In case a beneficiary dies, and she has been a member for more than five years, then his/her children will get financial education for completing their schooling.
In case a beneficiary dies, and she/he has been a member for more than five years, then his/her children will get financial education for completing their schooling.
In case a beneficiary dies and his/ her children are already getting financial assistance for any course (accepted by the Board), then the assistance will continue for the normal duration of that course subject to normal conditions like attendance etc.
Eligibility
For Registration
The applicant should be a resident of Delhi.
The applicant should be a Building/Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For Application
The applicant should be a children of the construction worker.
The applicant should be studying in any of the following classes: Class 1 to 8/ Class 9 to 10/ Class 11 to 12/ Graduation level/ ITI Course/ L.LB. Course/ Polytechnic Diploma/ Technical Course such as Engineering, Medical, MBA/ Open learning/ Distant learning. 
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Register Now”.
Step 2: Enter the following mandatory details: Aadhaar Card Number, Name as on Aadhar Card, Mobile Number, Date of Birth (as on Aadhar Card), Gender, etc. Create a password and confirm it. Click “Register”. You will be redirected to the registration page.
Step 3: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Father Name, Mother Name, Photograph, Applicant’s Video, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 4: On the next page, enter the mandatory details regarding your work/workplace (Previous/Current Employer Details, Proof of 90 Days Employment, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 5: Click on “Add Family Members” to avail the benefits of various schemes.
Step 6: In the next window, add your Bank Account details.
Step 7: In the next window, upload your Aadhaar Card, Address Proof, Birth Proof, Employment Proof, Bank Account details etc.
Step 8: In the next window, the "Affidavit of the Applicant" will be displayed. Verify all the details, and click on the checkbox.
Step 9: Proceed for the online registration fee of ₹25/- through a Debit Card/ Internet Banking/ UPI.
Step 10: Enter the OTP received on your registered mobile number to apply. Note down the Application Number for future reference. Download the acknowledgement receipt.
Track Your Application
Visit the homepage of the website regularly and click on "Track Your Application" to check the status of your application.
Application
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Apply for Scheme”.
Step 2: Log in through Aadhaar Number/ Registration Card/ OTP.
Step 3: Apply for the “Education Assistance” scheme.

Helpline Number: 011-41236600
DBOCWWB Department Number (office hours: 9:30AM - 6:00PM) : 011-23813846
Documents Required
Institutional Identity Card of the Student.
Bank Passbook Copy/ Copy of Cancelled Cheque.
Aadhar Card of the child.
