Financial Assistance To Disabled Children (HBOCWWB)
Haryana
ChildrenConstruction WorkerDisabilityFinancial Assistance
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Disabled Children (HBOCWWB)” was launched by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹2000/- per month is given to the children of registered workers who are declared by the medical authority 50% or more physically or mentally disabled. Further, it is necessary for the registered worker to have regular membership of one year for availing of the benefits of the scheme.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹2000/- per month is provided to the children of registered workers who are declared by the medical authority 50% or more physically or mentally disabled.
Eligibility
The construction worker should be registered under Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB).
The registered worker must have a minimum of one-year regular membership.
The registered worker who has dependent children with 50% or more physical/mental disability is eligible to apply under the scheme.
The worker should have a disability certificate of 50% or more physical or mental disability of his/her dependent children issued by the District Medical Board.
The dependent child's name has to be included in the ration card.
The dependent child of the registered worker has not availed of the benefit of the scheme in the current financial year from any other Haryana Government Department/Board/Corporation.
The dependent child of the worker should not have any source of income.
The dependent child of the worker should not be married.
Note: The worker has to submit/upload the live certificate of the dependent child every year to continue the financial assistance under the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Construction Worker Under HBOCWWB:
Step 01: The construction worker should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building & Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link.
Step 03: The construction worker has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)- Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID
• Select a family member for registration
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: Aadhaar Verification before Registration: Provide your Aadhaar number and tick mark the checkbox for the declaration. Click on the “Continue” button.
Step 06: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 07: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, a worker can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
Step 08: To avail of the benefits, a worker has to pay the registration fee and add a work experience of a minimum of 90 days of the preceding year.
Step 09: Now, the worker needs to add work experience, to add 90 days of experience, the applicant has to fill in all the details where he/she has worked.
Step 10: The schemes and other benefits can be availed once the 90 days’ work experience is approved by the
Officer.
Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the worker needs to visit Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: If the worker is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number & password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: The worker will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.

HBOCW Registration User Manual    HBOCW Registration Basic Instructions & Features 
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter Card
Passport-size photograph
Undertaking
Work Slip
Proof of residence
Ration Card
Bank account details
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Birth Certificate (If applicable)
Disability certificate issued by Govt. Medical Board
An affidavit that the dependent child has not availed the benefit of the scheme in the current financial year from any other Haryana Government Department/Board/Corporation.
An undertaking that the dependent child has no source of income and the child is not married.
