Family Pension (HBOCWWB)
Haryana
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerDeathFamilyLabourPensionSpouse
Details
The scheme “Family Pension” is implemented by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, on the death of a pensioner worker who is being given pension by the Haryana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, half of his/her pension is given to his/her spouse (as the case may be).

Benefits
After the death of the worker-pensioner, half of the pension amount will be given to the dependent wife/husband as family pension every month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the spouse of the deceased worker.
The deceased worker should have been registered with the Haryana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The registered deceased worker must have been getting the pension from the Board.
Application Process
Online
Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number & password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
HBOCW Registration User Manual
Documents Required
Documents required for Scheme Benefits:
Identity card of the registered deceased worker
Identity proof of the spouse
Passport-size photographs
Proof of Spouse
Death Certificate of the worker
Proof of Residence
Ration Card
Bank account details
Undertaking by applicant 
Any other documents as required
