Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme for Rural Entrepreneurs to set up Custom Hiring Centres (CHC) of Farm Machinery
West Bengal
AgricultureCredit Linked SubsidyCustom Hiring CentresEntrepreneursFarm MachineryFarmersFinancial AssistanceSubsidy
Details
“Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme for Rural Entrepreneurs to set up Custom Hiring Centres (CHC) of Farm Machinery” under the Farm Mechanization Umbrella Scheme, was launched on 22nd October 2014, by the Agriculture Department, Government of West Bengal with the purpose to provide opportunity to rural entrepreneurs for setting up of Custom Hiring Centres to enable the farmers to hire different high end farm machinery from them at a reasonable rate with the objective of rural employment, enhanced productivity and risk mitigation during calamities.
Area of Operation: The scheme is applicable uniformly throughout the State, except Kolkata district.

Choice of Machinery: 
List of Machinery/implements that can be selected for CHC s furnished in  Annexure-V (Page No. 38). List of available models of different farm machinery registered in Matirkatha portal with their indicative price will be published by the SPMT before starting of online application of the beneficiary so that the applicant can choose at least four types of Machinery / implements and maximum 2 (Two) nos. of tractors in a particular type from that list.
The list is indicative but not exhaustive, any suitable farm machinery not included in the list may also be included in the project as per latest SMAM guideline supportive to local situation with the approval of SPMT.
For any non-listed machinery, latest SMAM guidelines will be followed for arriving at subsidy portion of that particular machinery with the approval of SPMT.

Benefits
Pattern Of Assistance:
The maximum subsidy will be limited to 40% of the Total Financial Outlay(TFO) (TFO = indicative cost of machinery including transportation + AMC for 3 years + cost of open shed + insurance for 1 year).
Minimum TFO would be ₹20,00,000/- and the maximum would be as per SMAM Guideline and SPMT recommendation. An individual entrepreneur shall avail subsidy amounting ₹16,00,000/- or 40% of the TFO whichever is less to set up CHC.
The maximum amount allowed for the cost of open shed for machinery will be limited to 5% of the TFO and total ancillary cost (other than machinery) should not exceed 10% of TFO.
An individual entrepreneur shall avail subsidy amounting ₹16,00,000/- or 40% of the TFO whichever is less.
Note:
The applicant will have to deposit margin money of a minimum amount of 25% of TFO to the financing bank before release of subsidy by the DDA (Admn.) to the Bank and remaining amount will be bank loan.
No machine/equipment will be procured by the Government. The Government will only release subsidy as back ended subsidy against procurement by the beneficiaries as per their choice under CHC with Bank Loan. The subsidy will be released through DBT mode to the concerned bank branch to subsidy reserve fund/loan account for CHC. 
The subsidy will only be applicable for purchase of farm machinery/equipment from the approved Farm machinery Manufacturers and Dealers as enlisted in the Departmental portal.
A beneficiary or his/her spouse will not be eligible to apply afresh before completion of 4(four) years from release of the last subsidy for CHC scheme from the State under this Guidelines.
The subsidy will be provided from SDS and different CSS like RKVY- Cafeteria, SMAM, NFSM( Pulse/Rice/Nutri Cereals), TRFA ( Pulse/Coarse Cereals), NMEO for implementation of CHC.
Eligibility
Individual farmers registered under Krishak Bandhu (New) Scheme.
Or,
Groups like SKUS/PACS/FPO/FPC/FIG/SHG duly graded /LAMPS etc. approved/recognized by any Govt. Institutions/Departments are eligible to set up CHC.
The project cost/Total Financial Outlay (TFO) should be between minimum ₹20,00,000/-to maximum as per SMAM Guideline and SPMT recommendation.
The applicant should have sufficient land under his possession (own land/leased/hired) for setting up the CHC.
The land in question must belong to “commercial or bastu or viti” category.
The age of the beneficiary should be minimum 18 years at the time of application.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit the official FMS portal and click on “New Registration”.
Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory details in “Applicant Registration” form. 
Step 03: Verify all the details and click on “Sign Up”.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the official FMS portal and click on “Log in”.
Step 02: Enter Voter Card no, Password and select Season then click on “Log In”.
Step 03: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form. 
Step 04: After successful submission of online application, hard copies of print out of the application with acknowledgement receipt, recent passport size photograph and other prescribed documents (self-attest, if required) will have to be submitted to the office of the Deputy Director of Agriculture of the concerned District within the stipulated period.
Step 05: The applicant will get one time edit option in the specified field after submission of application through online mode but before submission of hard copy to the office of the Deputy Director of Agriculture of the concerned District. No edit option will be allowed once hard copy is submitted.
Step 06: The serial number generated in the online application to be referred in all cases.

Helpline Desk: 8336957298 (10.00 am to 6.00 pm)

Note: Online application of beneficiary farmers/entrepreneurs will have to be done in Matirkatha/ FMS portal after due advertisement in leading dailies, Departmental website.
Documents Required
Proforma Application Form, properly filled in,
Proof of Citizenship (EPIC),
Krishak Bandhu ID No (Visit here to Check your Krishak Bandhu ID),
Copy of AADHAAR card,
PAN Card,
Self-authenticated photocopy of updated bank pass-book, (Savings Bank/ Current Account in the same branch where subsidy will be transferred and kept under “lock-in” in SRF Account).
Title Deed/ROR (Records of Right) /Lease Certificate/Rent Receipt of land,
Detailed project report,
Quotations,
Vetted plan & estimate for shade of CHC etc.,
Resolution of the organization regarding authorization of signatory in the application.
