Scholarship Scheme for Worker's Children- Haryana Labour Welfare Board
Haryana
LabourScholarshipStudentWorker
Details
The scheme “Scholarship Scheme for Worker's Children” is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board (HLWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to children of workers and workers employed in industrial and commercial institutions of Haryana state to continue their studies. The amount of scholarship is given to workers and children of workers (3 girls and 2 boys) on passing the examination and continuing their studies in the next grade.

Benefits
Under this scheme, the following scholarship amounts are provided for different classes:
Sl. No. Class/Course (For Continuing Education) Scholarship Amount (Per Year)
1 9th to 10th Class ₹10,000/-
2 ITI Diploma ₹10,000/-
3 11th to 12th Class ₹12,000/-
4 All Types of Bachelor's Degrees ₹15,000/-
5 Polytechnic Diploma, C.A.D. Pharmacy, A.N.M., G.N.M. and Other Undergraduate Diploma Courses ₹15,000/-
6 All types of Engineering Degrees, B. Pharmacy ₹20,000/-
7 All Types of Post Graduate Degrees  Diplomas/B.Sc Nursing ₹20,000/-
8 All Types of Medical Degrees (MBBS, BDS, BAMS, etc.)
   ₹21,000/-
Eligibility
The applicant should be employed in an industrial or commercial establishment in Haryana.
The worker should be registered with the Haryana Labour Welfare Board.
The monthly salary of the worker should not exceed ₹25,000/-.
The service period of the worker is fixed for one year.
The worker or the worker's children studying in 9th grade or above are eligible for the scheme's benefits.
The scheme benefits are available to three girls and two boys per worker.
Note 01: The last date for submission of the application form for the benefit of this scheme has been fixed as 31st December. Application submitted on a date after December 31 will not be considered.
Note 02: If the child of the worker is taking a scholarship from any other institution, then he/she can also avail the benefit of the scheme.
Note 03: If a student receives a scholarship by giving a false certificate, he/she will never be given a scholarship in the future and the amount of the scholarship given will be taken back.
Note 04: The children of workers who drop out for some reason and continue their studies again will also get the benefit of this scheme. The children of workers who are continuing their education outside the state of Haryana will also be given the benefit of this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Worker under the Haryana Labour Welfare Board:
Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Welfare Board Beneficiary Login”, a new window page will be opened. If you don't have login details then click on “Click Here” to register.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)- Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button.
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID.
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
• Select a family member for registration.
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification.
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: A new page will be opened with basic information details of the applicant. Applicant needs to verify all the pre-filled details. 
Step 06: After verification, the applicant has to fill all the details and red* marked fields are mandatory. Applicant has to upload his/her photo and then click on the ‘Submit’ button to submit the application.
Step 07: Successfully Registered page will appear like the below image and an SMS/ email will be sent to the applicant.
Step 08: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, an applicant can login into his/her account using their username and password. 
Note: An applicant can also apply for registration, if he/she doesn’t have a family ID, through their Aadhaar Number.
Apply for scheme benefits:
Step 01: Visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: On the home page, click on "Welfare Board Beneficiary Login".
Step 03: Enter your Username, Password, Captcha, and click on the submit button.
Step 04: In the opened window, click on "Schemes", and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 05: Now, select the scheme and read its details.
Step 06: Fill in all the required details in the online application form and submit it.
Application Tracking:
Workers can track their application status online through the official website of the Labour Department Haryana. Relevant updates will be sent to the registered mobile number.

Apply for scheme benefits through the Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User” under the ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Full Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and login through the email ID that is used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, search for the scheme and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and Click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Documents Required
Documents required for registration under the Haryana Labour Welfare Board:
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID)
Bank account details
Proof of residence 
Ration Card
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Proof of age 
Disability certificate (If applicable)
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefits:
ID Proof of worker issued by the organization
Employee Certificate
Employer Certificate
Employee Salary Slip (Previous Month)
Previous year pass-out certificate
Continuing Study Certificate (Generated by the Principal/Headmaster of the concerned school).
Ration Card
Affidavit/Undertaking 
Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID)
Bank account details
Any other documents as required
