Financial Assistance in Marriage of Women Workers or Daughters of Workers- Haryana Labour Welfare Board
Haryana
DaughterFinancial AssistanceMarriageWoman WorkerWorker
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance in Marriage of Women Workers or Daughters of Workers” is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board (HLWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹51,000/- is provided to the workers employed in the industrial and commercial establishments of the state of Haryana for the marriage of their daughters and for the self-marriage of the working women workers as Kanyadaan. From 23.02.2015, the benefit of the said scheme is being extended from 02 girls to 03 girls for marriage and from 15.01.2019, the amount of kanyadaan will be provided three days before the date of solemnization of marriage. With the implementation of this scheme, the girl child will not be considered a burden in society and the boy-girl discrimination will also be reduced to some extent. This assistance will have no effect on the financial assistance received by the workers from other sources.

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹51,000/- is provided to the workers employed in the industrial and commercial establishments of Haryana state for the marriage of their daughters and to the working female workers for their own marriage in the form of Kanyadan.
Eligibility
The applicant should be employed in an industrial or commercial establishment in Haryana.
The applicant should be registered with the Haryana Labour Welfare Board.
The monthly salary of the applicant should not exceed ₹25,000/-.
The applicant must have a minimum of three years of regular membership of the Board till the Marriage date.
The applicant should apply within six months after the marriage date.
The benefits are provided to workers for the marriage of up to three daughters and for the self-marriage of female workers.
Note: The worker will give an undertaking that he will clearly explain to the Board whether he/she has availed the benefits of the Kanyadaan Scheme for the first time, second time or third time or never before.
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Worker Under the Haryana Labour Welfare Board:
Step 01: The applicant should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana. 
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Welfare Board Beneficiary Login”, a new window page will be opened. If you don't have login details then click on “Click Here” to register.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)- Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button.
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID.
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
• Select a family member for registration.
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification.
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: A new page will be opened with basic information details of the applicant. Applicant needs to verify all the pre-filled details. 
Step 06: After verification, the applicant has to fill all the details and red* marked fields are mandatory. Applicant has to upload his/her photo and then click on the ‘Submit’ button to submit the application.
Step 07: Successfully Registered page will appear like the below image and an SMS/ email will be sent to the applicant.
Step 08: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, an applicant can login into his/her account using their username and password. 
Note: An applicant can also apply for registration, if he/she doesn’t have a family ID, through their Aadhaar Number.
Apply for scheme benefits:
Step 01: Visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: On the home page, click on "Welfare Board Beneficiary Login".
Step 03: Enter your Username, Password, Captcha, and click on the submit button.
Step 04: In the opened window, click on "Schemes", and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 05: Now, select the scheme and read its details.
Step 06: Fill in all the required details in the online application form and submit it.
Application Tracking:
Workers can track their application status online through the official website of the Labour Department Haryana. Relevant updates will be sent to the registered mobile number.

Apply for scheme benefits through the Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Registration Process on the Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Full Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and login through the email ID that is used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, search for ‘Financial Assistance in marriage of women worker's or daughters of worker's - Haryana Labour Welfare Board’ and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and Click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Documents Required
Documents required for registration under the Haryana Labour Welfare Board:
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID)
Bank account details
Proof of residence 
Ration Card
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Proof of age 
Disability certificate (If applicable)
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefits:
ID proof of the worker issued by the organization
Employer Certificate
Employee Salary Slip (Previous Month)
Marriage Certificate/Establishment undertaking (Before marriage)
Undertaking (self)
Ration Card
Bank account details
Any other documents as required
