Fellowship For Superannuated Faculty Members
Ministry of Education
FacultyFellowship
Details
The "Fellowship for Superannuated Faculty Members" scheme is a fellowship scheme by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education to provide opportunities to superannuated faculty members of Universities/Institutes/Colleges, hereinafter “Institutions” to pursue research in their area(s).

Benefits
Tenure and Slots
Tenure: 3 years or upto 70 years whichever is earlier.
Slots: 100 per annum or as may be decided by the Commission

Financial Assistance
Fellowship: Rs. 50,000/- per month
Contingency: Rs.50,000/- per annum
Eligibility
(i) Faculty members at the level of Professors/Associate professors (who are going to superannuate within six months or already superannuated) from the following institutions are eligible to apply under the schemes:
Universities (including constituent and affiliated colleges/institutions) are included under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956, and have valid accreditation from NAAC.
Deemed to be Universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
Institutions fully funded by Central or State Governments and empowered to award Degrees.
Institutions of National Importance.
(ii) Age: up to 67 years
(iii) The applicant must have successfully supervised the Ph.D. dissertations of 10 full-time candidates, 3 of whom have received their degrees during the preceding 10 years.
(iv) The applicant must have handled, as Principal Investigator, at least 3 sponsored research projects funded by national/international agencies.
(v) The applicant shall not hold any administrative responsibility during the tenure of the fellowship which would be from the date of superannuation.
(vi) The applicant and Institutions shall have to provide an undertaking in the application as per Annexure-I.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once in a year through advertisements in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded in the UGC website i.e. www.ugc.ac.in

Step 1: Read the Guidelines 
This is the home page of the website: https://frg.ugc.ac.in/
● 5 schemes are displayed on the Homepage.
● Under each scheme, UGC guidelines are available. Before applying, kindly read the guidelines carefully and ensure your eligibility.


Step 2: Registration
● On the homepage, for registration, click on “New User” for the scheme you need to apply.
● Here, you need to fill in all the details for registration and provide an email address that will be used for all future correspondence.
● Please keep ready a scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB, format: jpg), before registration.
● The details provided at the registration stage will not be modified, after submission. It will be reflected in the Profile.
● Click on the ‘Submit’ button, after filling in all details. 

Step 3: Login
● After registration, you will receive an email from ugchelp@mail.inflibnet.ac.in with the Scheme Login Credentials to fill out the application form.
● You need to fill in the received login credentials
● Please change the password while logging in for the first time. Remember the new password, thereafter.

Step 4: Dashboard
● The details provided by you during Registration are now available in Profile.
● Various icons displayed here will be shown in red color before complete details are entered. Once all details are filled in and submitted, the color of the icons will change to green.
● Here, you need to click on the “Eligibility Criteria” button.

Step 5: Eligibility alert
● Read all the criteria and click on the check box next to UGC guidelines. 

Step 6: Eligibility 
● Please provide all the required details here.
● Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted from the parents on an affidavit of ₹ 100/-
stamp paper duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Tahsildar as per the prescribed proforma. 
In case, the parents are not alive, the affidavit can be submitted by the guardian of the Candidate. (Size: less than 1 MB)
● Kindly note that, once submitted, the eligibility form will not be modified.
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Step 7: Data Capturing Format 
After that, you click on the “Apply Now” box (see on rectangle)
Here, Data Capturing Dashboard will display where you need to fill in PG and Ph.D. details
Click on the PG Educational Qualification box

Step 8: PG details
● Provide PG details
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 9: Ph.D. Details
● Provide Ph.D.-related details and upload the required documents 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 10: Declaration
● Please read the declaration carefully.
● If you agree with the declaration, click on the check box next to “I Agree with above” 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Please save your application for future use.

Note: No hard copies of the application form will be accepted or entertained at any point of time
Documents Required
Scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB , format: jpg).
Complete Research proposal (size upto 5 MB) and an abstract (size upto 1MB)
After filling out the application form, an auto-generated form will be displayed on your screen. Please take the printout of the same, get it signed by the 
HoD/Registrar and upload the same before the submission of the application form.
Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted from the parents on an affidavit of Rs. 100/- stamp paper duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Tahsildar as per the prescribed proforma. In case, the parents are not alive, the affidavit can be submitted by the guardian of the Candidate (Size: less than 1MB)
