West Bengal Handloom and Khadi Weavers Financial Benefit Scheme 2024: Supply of Yarn to Societies etc. at Subsidized Rate
West Bengal
HandloomKhadi SocietiesKhadi WeaversPWCSSubsidized RateYarn
Details
“Supply of Yarn to Societies etc. at Subsidized Rate" is a sub-scheme under "West Bengal Handloom and Khadi Weavers Financial Benefit Scheme 2024”, launched by the Micro, Small & Medium Enterprise and Textiles Department, Government of West Bengal on 7th March, 2024, and it shall remain in force for a period of five years. The objective of this sub-scheme is to provide supply of subsidized yarn to the Primary Weavers' Cooperative Societies and Khadi Weavers' Societies etc. and Individual weavers.

Benefits
TANTUJA will supply yarn to handloom societies at a 10% discounted rate.
TANTUJA will receive a 5% administrative cost from the State Government for transportation, storage, and handling.
The Khadi Society, registered under various acts, will receive a 10% discount on roving or high count cotton fibre purchased from WBKVIB.
The WBKVIB will be reimbursed by the State government for the total concession amount given to the Khadi Societies, along with a 5% administrative cost for transportation, storing, and handling charges.
Note: This does not apply to yarn procured under the NHDP Scheme.
Eligibility
The following categories of weavers are eligible under this Scheme:
Handloom Weavers (Entrepreneur Weavers, so called Master Weavers/ Individual Weavers/ Allied Workers Associated with Handloom Weaving/ Cooperative fold Weavers/ Weavers associated with Handloom Clusters etc.),
 Khadi Weavers.
Application Process
Offline
An eligible PWCs/ Khadi society/ Individual Weaver will apply either in online or in offline mode in the prescribed format (as would be notified by this department) before the Director, Textiles.
Helpdesk: Office Addresses and Contact Details (District Wise).
Documents Required
Photo.
Aadhar card.
Proof of being a Handloom/ Khadi Weaver.
Any other documents as required.
