Pension Scheme - Folk Artist
Tamil Nadu
Financial AssistanceFolk ArtistPensionPerson With DisabilitySenior Citizen
Details
The "Pension Scheme" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The Tamil Nadu Folk Artist Pension Scheme aims to provide financial support to aged and disabled folk artists who have dedicated significant periods of their lives to the promotion and preservation of folk arts. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the Regional Office. 

Benefits
Pension of ₹300/- per month. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a registered folk artist.
The applicant's age should be 60 years or above. 
The artist must have worked continuously in their profession for at least five years.
Disabled folk artists (sick and unable to work) who are under 60 but have been registered with the board for five continuous years are eligible for a pension.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the regional office and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form VIII & VIIIA from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Director/Deputy Director in the regional offices.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Assistant Director/Deputy Director to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).

Selection Procedure:
The Board shall examine every application for pension and may accept or reject the claim.
The decision of the Board is final.
Before rejecting a claim, the Board will give the applicant a reasonable opportunity to make a representation.
Documents Required
Two Passport-size Photograph.
Original Registration Card of the Folk Artist.  
Original Receipt for Registration and Last Renewal.
Disability Certificate (issued by a Medical Officer, not below the rank of Civil Surgeon under his name and seal should be enclosed in original) (If disabled).
