West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme: State Capital Investment Subsidy
West Bengal
EntrepreneurshipIncentivesReimbursementState Capital Investment SubsidySubsidyTextile
Details
The scheme “State Capital Investment Subsidy” is a sub scheme under “West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme”. It was launched on 13 December, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto five years.
Objective of the "West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme” Scheme:
The object of the scheme is to extend fiscal incentives to textile sector across the entire value chain starting from
fibre to stitched garments for setting up such units in the State. The focus is on accelerated and focused development of the textiles sector across the state. This shall enable to maximize the utilization of resources, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the state emerge as the preferred destination for investment in the textile sector.
Objective of the "State Capital Investment Subsidy" Scheme:
Through this incentive, an eligible textile sector enterprise shall receive a State Capital Investment Subsidy for its approved project based on the type manufacturing activities.

Benefits
An eligible textile sector enterprise in the state will be entitled to State Capital Investment Subsidy for its approved
project as follows:

Sl. No. Type of Manufacturing Activities Quantum of Subsidy Maximum Admissible Amount
1. Spinning (short staple)  10% ₹2,00,00,00,00/-
2.  Weaving & Knitting (warp and flat-bed) and texturing & twisting 20% ₹1,00,00,00,00/-
3. Circular knitting  10% ₹50,00,00,00/-
4. Dyeing and processing of fibers, yarn, fabric and garment 20% ₹2,00,00,00,00/-
5. Technical textile (Agrotech, Buildtech, Indutech, Geotech, and Medi-tech) and Non-woven fabric manufacturing 20% ₹2,50,00,00,00/-
6. Technical textile (All categories except Agrotech, Buildtech, Indutech, Geotech, and Medi-tech) 10% ₹1,00,00,00,00/-
7. Polymerization 20% ₹5,00,00,00,00/-
8. Composite type of textile unit comprising spinning, weaving, processing (dyeing and processing of fibers, yarn, fabric and garments), technical textile etc.  10% ₹5,00,00,00,00/-
Eligibility
Industries in the manufacturing and processing of textiles, apparel and technical textiles products.
The unit should have started production on or after 1st April 2022.
The units may be in the private sector, co-operative sector, joint sector as also companies/undertakings owned or managed by the State Government.
Shall not be applicable to the industrial units/enterprises.
The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions.
The unit should hold an Registration Certificate, Date of Commencement Certificate and Eligibility Certificate issued by the Directorate of Textiles on satisfaction of arrangement.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 1: Visit the registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details in that window and click on “Register”.
Step 3: You will be registered successfully with a confirmation.
Application Process:
Step 1: Visit the user login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Login with your registered Mail Id and Password.. 
Step 3: Fill up the eligible form.
Step 4: Check your eligibility in the portal.
Step 5: Fill up your CAF.
Step 6: Fill up Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 7: Download and Self sign Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 8: Upload signed copy of Form A and copy of Form C (if any).
Step 9: Submit Your Application.
Helpdesk: Directorate of Textile.
Documents Required
Auditor’s/ Chartered Accountant’s Certificate for utilization of funds.
A certificate from a Chartered Accountant as per Annexure - I.
A certificate in respect of fixed assets as per Annexure - II.
Any other documents as required.
