AlCTE - Distinguished Professional Scheme
Ministry of Education
AICTEHonorariumProfessorsStudentTechnical Education
Details
The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), under the Ministry of Education, has launched the AICTE-Distinguished Professionals Scheme. This initiative aims to enhance the quality of technical education in India by leveraging the expertise of professionals, emeritus professors, and eminent personalities. 
Objective:
The Distinguished Professional Scheme (DPS) intends to utilize the expertise of highly qualified and eminent professionals by creating a pool of experts from industry, institutes, research labs, and senior civil service officers in their domain to motivate and inspire the students/faculty members of AICTE-approved institutes. 
Expectations from Distinguished Professionals:
(i) Interaction with faculty, UG /PG, and Ph.D. students.
(ii) Promotion of industry connect program.
(iii) Promotion of Research and Innovation.
(iv) Promotion of startups and entrepreneurship.
(v) Support the Institution to enhance the employability of students.
(vi) Promotion of Indian Knowledge System (IKS) and activities related to societal upliftment.
Duration:
The Distinguished Professional Scheme nominees can hold their position for up to three years or until they turn 75, whichever comes first. Extensions are possible based on fitness.

Benefits
Honorarium of ₹15,000 per day for full-day interaction with faculty members/students.
Travel and local hospitality arrangements will be managed by the host institution.
Professionals are encouraged to visit at least three rural institutions per year.
Eligibility
The applicant must have made unparalleled technical or professional contributions to society in their respective fields.
The applicant should have acknowledged leader (Professionals) in their particular field with active engagement in research, technology development, and innovation.
The applicant should conduct 2 visits per month with a maximum of 12 visits per year.
Application Process
Online
Apply Procedure:
Step 1: The interested applicant needs to fill a Google Form to apply for the scheme.
Step 2: Fill in the required information and upload all the essential documents.
Selection Procedure:
The Nominations /selections of the Professional shall be intimated immediately after the approval of the competent authority of the Council on a monthly basis.
NOTE: The offer of the AICTE –Distinguished Professional Scheme shall be valid for the period mentioned in the request/ invitation letter. The Professional is requested to give concurrence for the same.
Responsibility of Host Institute for Application:
Host Institute shall issue their expression of interest to the call by AICTE on specific topic of their interest.
Host Institute and the Professional delegated by AICTE shall schedule the visit upon mutual understanding
Host institute is expected to meet all the travel and logistics expenses, provide necessary administrative and local hospitality towards making the visit of Professional successful and meaningful.
After visit, Institute shall submit the report and participant feedback in prescribed format. On submission, AICTE shall provide a “certificate of recognition” for the said activity.
After the visit, the institute shall also submit the duly completed Honorarium form from the Distinguished Professionals to AICTE.
Documents Required
Resume/CV (Profile in pdf format).
Educational Document (Degree, Master (If any), Ph.D. (If any) all in one pdf in chronological order).
Experience Certificate (In Chronological order).
Evidence for Recognized Contribution in your field.
Evidence of a career commitment to excellence in teaching research or creativity activities, and service to the University and the community at large.
Evidence of an outstanding reputation in student supervision, mentorship, and educational leadership. 
