Award of Puduvai Kalaimamani
Puducherry
ArtistsAuthorDramaFinancial AssistanceMusic
Details
The "Award of Puduvai Kalaimamani" scheme was launched by the Arts and Culture Department, Puducherry. The scheme aims to provide prizes of ₹50,000/- and 30 awards to artists or authors/writers in the fields of Literature, Music, Dance, Drama, Painting and Sculpture, and Folk arts. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available at the Director of Art and Culture Department. 

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹50,000/-. 
No. of Awards: 30
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artist or author/writer.
The applicant's age should be 30 years or above. 
The applicant should be performed in the field of literature, music, dance, drama, painting and sculpture, and folk arts. 
The author/writer should have published books of high repute in poetry, prose, and research articles in literature and grammar in their respective languages. 
The applicant should participate in literary and research.
The applicant should not have been given any such award by other Government and Organisations like Universities etc.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry or residence in Puducherry continuously for a period of 5 years. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department of Art and Culture and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant downloads the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the superintendent, Department of Art and Culture, No.1, Roman Roland Road, Puducherry 605 001.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the superintendent to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Residence Certificate.
Birth Certificate.
Education Certificate.
Occupation Certificate.
Income Certificate.
List of Books/Articles Published.
Degrees / Honours / National and State Level Certificate.
