Chief Minister Nari Shakti Yojana
Bihar
Encourage WomenFinancial AssistanceWomen Empowerment
Details
The objective of this scheme is integrated work related to social empowerment, cultural empowerment and economic empowerment related to the development of women. 
Along with this, Bihar State Women's Information and Resource Center / Gender Resource Center is operated for the collection, storage, publication, and dissemination of information related to women, research and development.

Benefits
Related to the development of women
Under social empowerment: Women's helpline, short stay home, defense home, working women's hostel, child care home.
Under cultural empowerment: Women cultural fairs and award scheme to self-help groups for innovative work.
Under economic empowerment: Training of women in employable vocational courses in service sector and employment or association with self-employment, training work research for service sector and Innovative for new ideas regarding their development and empowerment Planning is to be encouraged.
Eligibility
Adolescent girls and women will be eligible under Mukhyamantri Nari Shakti Yojana.
The benefit of Chief Minister Nari Shakti Yojana will be provided only to women.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the state of Bihar.
The benefit of this scheme will be provided equally to both rural and urban women.
It is necessary for the applicants to have the necessary documents.
Application Process
Online
The Applicants have to visit the official website of the Social Welfare Department, Bihar.
On the official website click on the “New Registration” on the home page.
After clicking on the option the registration form will open.
Enter all the necessary information asked in this form like the applicant's name, the applicant's mother's / father's name, caste, mobile number, email id, password, etc., and click on the "Register" button.
After clicking on the button, applicants will get a user id and password.
Now applicants have to log in to the portal with the help of their User ID and Password.
After login, the Nari Shakti Yojana application form will open.
Now in the application form applicants will have to enter their personal details, bank details, UPSC details, etc.
After that photo, signature, and documents will have to be uploaded.
After entering all the details click on the submit button.
After a successful application, applicants will get an application reference number.
With the help of this number, applicants can track the status of their applications.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Address proof.
Ration card.
Photo copy of bank passbook.
Caste Certificate (if applicable).
Passport-size photo.
Mobile number.
