Internship Scheme
Delhi
ForestInternsInternshipStudent
Details
The scheme “Internship” is implemented by the Department of Forest and Wildlife, Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) provides internship training to students studying at recognized schools, institutions, and universities. The aim of this scheme is to allow short-term exposure to youth working in the different sections of the Department of Forests and Wildlife, GNCTD as ‘Interns’. Interested students from Forestry, Technology, Wildlife, Social Sciences, Science, Economics, Law, Management, and Finance can apply for internships.
Period of Internship:
Duration of the internship will be decided by the Department based on the domain selected by the candidate and shall not exceed more than 90 days in normal circumstances.
Only in cases wherein a significant work has been done by an intern and can be taken to a logical conclusion, PCCF may give the extension of a maximum of one month

Benefits
Experience Certificate:
At the end of the successful completion of the internship, the interns will be awarded a "Certificate” along with a grading based on the performance of the intern.
Logistics & Support:
Facilities like transportation to the work site, printing of study material, etc. required for successful completion of the internship shall be provided by the Department.
Stipend:
No stipend shall be paid.
Eligibility
The internship training is open only to students who are studying at recognized schools, institutions, and universities.
Preference will be given to those with a clear Statement of Purpose of internship.
The student should have attained 18 years of age.
Educational Qualifications: Students with the following qualifications will be considered on a merit basis:
1. Pursuing Science, Forestry, Ecology, Computer Science, Electronic Engineering And Related Courses:
Second year and above of Bachelor's Degree and Integrated 5-year Course in Science, Forestry, Ecology and Related Courses.
Higher Secondary in Science Stream.
2. Pursuing Commerce, Economics And Management Courses as Under:
BA/B. Sc /MA/M. Sc. (Eco.)
Students of 5 Years Integrated Degree Programme in Economics.
MBA
3. Pursuing Law as under:
Second and third year of Bachelor's Degree in Law or
Second year and above of the Integrated Five-Year Course in Law.
LLM
4. Higher Secondary:
Higher Secondary in Science and Commerce Stream. 
Note 1: Interns must clearly indicate the area of interest.
Note 2: The interns shall have the option to apply in a maximum 3 (three) disciplines only.
Note 3: Applicants are required to submit a Statement of purpose (SoP) for applying for an internship in not more than 1000 words. The SoP should broadly cover reasons for interest in the field, the relevance of their skill set in the selected domain, and expected contribution in the domain selected by them.
Note 4: The final topic of internship and domain shall be decided as per requirement of the Department by Research Advisory Committee.
Note 5: The applicant shall be required to submit the supporting document of qualification and/or enrolment in Educational institutes. They may also submit document to support additional skill sets for supporting their application.
Terms and Conditions of Selection:
The interns shall be required to write a paper/detailed account of work done on management of natural resources related themes/issues and of the relevance of their work to the Department.
The interns if required may be asked to participate in related activities like training and research in the Department.
The intern will submit a draft report of the assignment to the designated officer (Guide) before the conclusion of the internship.
The intern may be required to make a presentation before the Department at the end of the internship, after clearance by the respective Guide.
The intern shall work within the premises of the Department and move outside only after due permission from the Guide during working hours. The Department shall provide all support to the intern as the case may be for the successful completion of the internship.
The final product of the internship shall be the intellectual property of the Department and the intern shall not use it without prior approval of the Department.
Interns shall be under the discipline of the Department during the period of internship.
It may be strictly observed that the conduct of the interns and their access to data shall be the sole responsibility of the concerned Guide only. Prior permission is required from the Guide before accessing any information from the Department.
The internship may be discontinued at any time if the performance of the intern is not found satisfactory.
The students will not have any claim for a job in the Department of Forests and Wildlife, GNCTD.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process for the Scheme:
Step 1: Interested applicants shall apply online only on the website of the Department of Forests and Wildlife, GNCTD for the internship: https://internship.eforest.delhi.gov.in/
Step 2: On the home page, click on the "Login" option. If you are a new user, click on "Sign Up."
Step 3: Fill in your details, including Applicant's Category, Applicant's Details, User Credentials, and upload a recent photograph.
Step 4: Read all the Terms and Conditions carefully, and click "Submit" to complete the registration process.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 1: To apply under the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the website of the Department of Forests and Wildlife.
Step 2: Click on “Login”.
Step 3: Enter your Username, Password, and Captcha, then click on ‘Login’.
Step 4: After a successful login, click on ‘Apply for Internship Scheme’.
Step 5: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
Note 1: The application should be made preferably 3 months in advance of the desired time period, clearly mentioning the period for which the internship is being applied.
Note 2: At the time of joining on selection, applicants shall be required to produce a letter from their Supervisor/Head of Department/Principal, if applicable, indicating their status in the Institution and "No Objection" for allowing their student to undergo Internship programme for the period for which he or she is selected.
Note 3: The applications found incomplete or not fulfilling the criteria laid down above will be summarily rejected.
Note 4: Applications from the applicants who have already completed the internship scheme in this Department shall not be entertained.
Documents Required
Applicant’s Passport-size photograph
Proof of Age
Proof of Identity
Statement of Purpose
Proof of Enrollment
Letter of Recommendation
Educational Qualification Documents
Additional Skill Set Documents
Proof of Residence
Any other document as required
