MMKY-Financial Assistance for New Boat, Engine, and Net
Odisha
BoatEngineFinancial AssistanceFishFishermanMaschyajibiNet
Details
The State plan scheme “MMKY-Financial Assistance for New Boat, Engine, and Net” was launched by the Fisheries & Animal Resources Development Department, Government of Odisha under Mukhyamantri Maschyajibi Kalyan Yojana (MMKY) in order to increase the marine fish production and to enhance incomes and livelihoods of the marine fishers.
Objectives:
To support the Coastal communities by provision of new wooden/FRP Boat, Engine and purchase of new fishing net.
To increase the marine fish production in the state.
To increase the income and to improve the welfare of coastal communities in the State.
Area of Operation:
The scheme shall be implemented by the Additional Fisheries Officers (Marine)/District Fisheries Officer (B&T), Balugaon for marine fishing in the coastal districts of Odisha. The district-wise annual target shall be communicated by the Director of Fisheries. The target is interchangeable depending on the progress made by the District Level Officers.

Benefits
Unit Cost and Subsidy Assistance:
Sl. No. Item Maximum Unit Cost (₹ in Lakh) Maximum Government Assistance (₹ in Lakh)/Beneficiary Maximum Government Assistance (₹ in Lakh)/Beneficiary



General (40%) Women/SC/ST/PWD/Transgender (60%)
1 Fishing Boat 7.50 3.00 4.50
2 Engine 1.40 0.56 0.84
3 Life Saving Equipment 0.10 0.04 0.06
4 Fishing Net 1.00 0.40 0.60

Total 10.00 4.00 6.00
*NB: Items at Sl. No. 1 & 3 are mandatory and others are optional as per the requirement of the fisherman.
Note 01: Financial Assistance shall be limited to 1(one) unit (boat with engine and net) per individual beneficiary.
Note 02: Procurement of Fishing Boats is mandatory under this scheme. However, the procurement of Engine and Fishing Net is optional, based on the requirement of the beneficiary.
Note 03: Back-ended subsidy will be limited to 60% for SC/ ST/ Women/ PWD/ Transgender and 40% for General category. Subsidy shall be released directly to the Aadhaar linked Bank Account of the beneficiary.
Note 04: For a differently-abled person, the certificate of disability issued by a certifying authority/ competent authority indicating 40% or more disability as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 will be accepted for the PWD category) /Transgender. (The certificate of identity as transgender person issued by the District Magistrate as per "the transgender person protection of Rights Act, 2019 will be accepted for the transgender category.
Note 05: In case, Government in the F & ARD Department enhances the percentage of subsidy that shall be applicable for those beneficiaries who have received go -ahead letter during the FY 2023-24.
Eligibility
The following are the eligibility criteria of the beneficiary:
The beneficiary should be a resident of Odisha and must possess identity and residential proof including an Aadhaar Card.
The beneficiary should have a Bank Account in his/her name in the State of Odisha.
The beneficiary should have QR Coded Aadhaar Card.
The beneficiary should not have received any financial assistance from Government /any Agency towards the purchase of any new boat/engine in the last 5 Years (the beneficiary should not have availed subsidy after 1st April 2018) and net in the last 3 Years (the beneficiary should not have availed subsidy after 1st April 2020).
While availing subsidy, the beneficiary family will be considered instead of individual members of the family. One beneficiary family should not be provided with multiple benefits under one particular scheme. A family will not be eligible for subsidy under the same scheme if any of its members have received a subsidy during the last three years.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant interested to avail of the subsidy shall applying the Go-Sugam Portal through a registration process submitting requisite documents.
Step 02: Visit the official website:  https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home
Step 03: Click on “Apply” and then click on “Register Now”.
Step 04: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Name, Email, Mobile Number, Address, and Password) and click on "Register". The login credentials will be sent to your registered Email ID / Mobile Number.
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website: https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/home
Step 02: Click on “Scheme & Services” and then select the scheme by its name.
Step 03: Click “Apply” and login. https://sugam.odisha.gov.in/website/citizen-portal/login
Step 04: On the application page, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the appropriate file size and file type. Upon successful submission of the application, the applicant will get an Application Reference ID.
Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Track Status” link on the menu.
Step 02: Enter the Application ID or Mobile Number to get the application status.
Documents Required
1. A copy of the Photo ID Card 
2. Passport size photograph
3. A copy of the Caste/category certificate, if applicable
4. A copy of the QR Aadhaar card
5. Bank account details/first-page bank passbook
6. Any other relevant documents, as required
