Maternity Assistance for the Construction Worker
Sikkim
Construction WorkersFinancial AssistanceLabourMaternityMedical Support
Details
The "Maternity Assistance for the Construction Workers" by the Sikkim Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, is a welfare scheme for the registered women workers of the board. Under this scheme, the women employees who are registered beneficiary for a period of one year shall be given a sum as may be determined by the Board from time to time as maternity benefit during the period of maternity.

Benefits
₹10,000/- is provided to the registered women members.
Note: The benefit shall not be allowed more than twice. 
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Sikkim.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Registered women member Under the Sikkim Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
Women should be pregnant.
The applicant shall be eligible to avail the benefits only for their first 2 children.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: The complete application form along with the required documents is required to be submitted to the Registering Officer of the area.
Step 2: The Registering Officer, after satisfying himself/herself with all the details, may register the worker as a beneficiary under the act and issue an Identity Card in Form XXVIII.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Upon receiving the Identity Card as a Building/ Construction Worker, the applicant needs to download the application form for the concerned welfare scheme and submit the form along with the mandatory documents to the Secretary or any other Officer authorized by him in the District Labour Office (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Later on, verifying the eligibility of the concerned welfare scheme, the applicant may get the benefits.
Application form for the Registration as a Beneficiary: Form XXVII (Refer Page No: 153).
Application form for the Maternity Assistance: Form XLI (Refer Page No: 167).
Helpdesk:
For further enquiry, workers can contact the following numbers:-
70769-26998 (BOCW Nodal Officer)
90643-89842 (East)
90028-33969 (Pakyong)
96098-63959 (South)
95477-16798 (West)
96359-98441 (North)
Toll Free Helpline for labourers: 18003451474
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Photographs of the concerned worker.
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
Attested copy of Address Proof.
Details of the establishment where the applicant is working.
Proof regarding Submission of Registration fees.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Letter from concerned organization/establishment.
Identity Card.
Birth Certificate of Child.
Family photo.
