Financial Assistance for Education for the Construction Workers
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerEducation AssistanceLabourStudent
Details
The "Financial Assistance for Education for the Construction Workers" by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board will provide  reimbursement towards the fee paid by the member for the education of up to two children who are studying in schools/college or pursuing any technical degrees(MBA, Engineering, Medicine, etc) or preparing for Competitive Exams.

Benefits

Sr. No Standard/ Course Amount of Assistance
1. Class 1 to 8 ₹500/- PM; ₹6000/- PA
2. Class 9 to 10 ₹700/-PM: ₹8400/- PA
3. Class 11 to 12 ₹1000/-PM: ₹12,000/- PA
4. Graduation level, ITI Course, Polytechnic Diploma (3 years) and Technical courses like MBA, Engineering, Medicine, etc. ₹1,000/-PM and reimbursement of tuition and hostel fees
5. Competitive Exams Supplementary education @ 75% of fees/cost incurred subject to a maximum of ₹50,000/- yearly per student. The students of class IX to XII & to those who have passed class XII not less than 2 years prior to the claim period but are preparing for Competitive exams shall be eligible.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in any building or other construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The beneficiary should be a child of a registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
The child must be one of the first two children.
The member has not claimed this reimbursement before from any other source and will not claim the same in future.
The child should be studying in any of the following class/courses:
Class 1 to 12 Or,
Graduation/ ITI Course/ Polytechnic Diploma (3 years)/Technical Courses (like MBA, Engineering, Medicine, etc.) Or,
Preparing for Competitive Exams.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Application for registration is to be made in the prescribed form and is to be accompanied by prescribed documents and a fee of not more than ₹50/-.
Step 2: Application for registration has to be made to the officer authorized by the Board on this behalf.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Any registered worker can make an application in the prescribed Form-VII (Refer Page No: 12)  along with the mandatory documents  (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Member Secretary (BOCWWB) for this benefit.
Check Beneficiary Details: Visit the official website and enter the “BOCW Registration No.” of the concerned beneficiary in the Search box.
Helpdesk:
BOCW Department:
EMAIL ID: labour-dnh@nic.in
PHONE NUMBER : 0260 - 2642374
ADDRESS:
Old Circuit House Building,
Opposite Bal Bhawan, Silvassa,
Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Pin:- 396230
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Photographs of the concerned worker.
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
Attested copy of Address Proof.
Details of the establishment where the applicant is working.
Proof regarding Submission of Registration fees.
Any other document as required.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Original Fee Receipt.
Bank Account details.
