Financial Assistance to Ex-Servicemen of and above the Age of 60 Years and their Widows
Haryana
Ex-ServicemanFinancial AssistanceSainikWidow
Details
The scheme "Financial Assistance to Ex-Servicemen of and above the Age of 60 Years and their Widows" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month shall be given to ex-servicemen and widows of ex-servicemen of and above the age of 60 years, who are not in receipt of any kind of pension/financial assistance or maintenance allowance either from any Department of Government of India/State Government or from any Body/Organization controlled by Central/State Government. Only bonafide residents of Haryana State are eligible for a grant of financial assistance and the applicants shall have to produce a domicile certificate issued by the competent authority as authorized by the Haryana Government and an attested copy of the Ration Card.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month is given to ex-servicemen and widows of ex-servicemen aged 60 years and above, with an annual increase of ₹400/- w.e.f. 01.11.2017 every year in November.
Note: Sanctioned financial assistance grant shall be payable to the beneficiary from the first day of the following month in which case for grant of financial assistance is sanctioned by the Raiya Sainik Board and no arrear, for the past period prior to the date of sanction of grant of financial assistance shall be paid.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be an ex-serviceman or widow of an ex-serviceman aged 60 years and above.
Only ex-servicemen of other ranks (i.e., Havildar and below) who are in penury and have an annual income from all sources below ₹2,00,000/- are eligible under the scheme.
The applicant should not be in receipt of any kind of pension, financial assistance, or maintenance allowance from any department of the Government of India/State Government or from anybody/organization controlled by the Central/State Government.
Persons who were discharged from service on the ground of "Service No Longer Required" under rule 13, III (V) due to misconduct & inefficiency are not eligible for financial assistance, and their widows’ are also not eligible for financial assistance as the individual does not fall in the definition of ex-serviceman.
The widows of ex-servicemen as per definition, who were discharged from service with fair character due to inefficiency/misconduct and "Service No Longer Required" due to inefficiency/misconduct are also not eligible for grant of financial assistance.
Note 1: If any beneficiary, after the date of sanction of the financial assistance, is found drawing old age pension or any other financial assistance from any other Government source. He/she shall be permanently debarred for the grant of financial assistance under all the welfare schemes run by the Rajya Zila Sainik Boards in Haryana.
Note 2: Payment of financial assistance to those beneficiaries shall be stopped immediately who fail to submit their survival verification proofs once every year in the month of April from the authorities.
Note 3: Old ex-serviceman & widow beneficiaries, whose cases for grant of financial assistance have already been sanctioned prior to the issue of the guidelines shall continue to get the financial assistance at enhanced rates as per their eligibility and they need not apply afresh.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’.
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined documents form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 5: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Note: All the applications received by the Zila Sainik Boards shall be scrutinized at the level of Zila Sainik Board itself and applications so found fit for grant of financial assistance shall be forwarded with full case to Rajya Sainik Board for sanction with a clear recommendation of the Secretary, Zila Sainik Board.
Documents Required
Copy of Identity Card of Ex-serviceman/Widow of Ex-Serviceman 
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Aadhaar Card
Original Discharge Book of ex-serviceman (Complete)
Haryana Resident Certificate
Revenue Report verified from Tehsildar (annual income from all sources is below ₹2,00,000/-)
A copy of the Bank passbook linked with the Aadhaar number
Death Certificate of ex-serviceman (in case of widow)
Non-Remarriage Certificate of Widow (in case of widow)
Applicant’s Photo ID Proof (Ration Card/Driving License/ Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
Delay Report
NOC from the concerned District Social Welfare Department regarding not receiving any Financial Assistance/Pension.
Affidavit for verifying the particulars given by the Ex‐Serviceman/Widow of the Ex-Serviceman
Any other documents as required
Note 1: Every applicant shall have to attach the original Discharge Book issued by the concerned Record Office of the ex-serviceman for scrutiny of the case which shall be returned through respective Zila Sainik Boards after consideration of the application.
Step 2: Every applicant shall have to produce a certificate issued by the concerned  District Social Welfare Officer to the effect that the applicant is not getting any financial assistance/Pension/widow pension from the Social Justice & Empowerment Department of Haryana.
