Chanakya Scheme for Swayam Upadhi
Andhra Pradesh
Brahmin CommunityFinancial AssistanceMicro EnterprisesOpportunity
Details
Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation (ABC) Limited, a Government of Andhra Pradesh undertaking is introducing the “Chanakya Scheme for Swayam Upadhi” (CS-SU) to encourage Brahmin entrepreneurs in Andhra Pradesh. Under this scheme, one-time financial assistance upto ₹2,00,000/- (not exceeding 50% of the project cost) for projects costing between ₹3,00,000/- and ₹10,00,000/- will be considered. 

Objective:
To encourage Brahmins to set up Micro Enterprises in Andhra Pradesh in various sectors like Catering, Education, Electronics, Healthcare (Clinic, Diagnostics, Pharmacy, Physiotherapy), Engineering, IT & ITES (Coaching, Development, DTP, Repairs), Photography /Videography, Pooja Materials, Retail, Ritual Tools and equipment, Solar, Telecom, Textiles, etc.

Benefits
One-time financial assistance upto ₹2,00,000/-. 
NOTE: Not exceeding 50% of the project cost.
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to the Brahmin community.
The applicant should reside in any of the 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant should have set up the enterprise in Andhra Pradesh.
The applicant's age should be 50 years or below.  
The applicant should have a zeal to become a successful entrepreneur. 
Application Process
Online
Registration and apply
Step 01: Applicants have to visit the official website(https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/schemes/schemes.aspx#) and click on "Scheme"
Step 02: Click on "Registration" After that application form will open
Step 03: Fill out the required details:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-4: After submission receive the reference number. 

Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step 02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step 03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step 01: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip"
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme"
Step 03: Click on the "Submit"
Documents Required
Aadhar Card of the Applicant. 
Valid Income Certificate (issued by competent authority not earlier than 6 months. 
Caste Certificate (issued by RI / MRO). 
Senior Secondary Pass Certificate/Birth Certificate. 
Certificate of Highest Qualification of the Applicant. 
Passport-size Photographs.  
Detailed Project Report (DPR) on the Proposed Project. 
Write-up covering how his passion, interests, and capabilities match the business proposal.
Bank statement of previous six months. 
A reference from a registered Brahmin organization or a Brahmin of eminence (Retired IAS/IPS/IFS Officer, Retired High Court Judge, Retired Professor/VC of any University, Chartered Accountant, Reputed Doctor /Industrialist, Bank employee retired in senior position, etc.), citing his passion, interests, and capabilities. 
