Balika Samrithi Yojana
Puducherry
ChildFinancial AssistanceGirlMotherWomen
Details
The scheme “Balika Samrithi Yojana” by the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Pondicherry was introduced to improve the status of the girl child and provide nutritious food to the girl child. Through this scheme, assistance of ₹500 in the form of a National Savings Certificate is provided to lactating mothers. The target beneficiaries are girl children born on or after 15-8-97.

Benefits
Assistance of ₹500 in the form of a National Savings Certificate.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a girl child born on or after 15-8-97.
The annual income of the family of the applicant should not exceed ₹15,000.
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Pondicherry by birth or continuous residence for not less than 3 years.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card.
2. Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
3. Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
4. Passport-sized Photograph.
5. Declaration/Undertaking (if any).
6. Birth Certificate from the Municipality/Commune.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
