Indira Gandhi Pyari Behna Sukh-Samman Nidhi Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
Economic EmpowermentFinancial AssistanceWomen
Details
The Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of Himachal Pradesh launched the "Indira Gandhi Pyari Behna Sukh-Samman Nidhi Yojana" scheme. The scheme recognizes the significant contributions of women in household work, cultural preservation, and family economy by providing a monthly assistance.

Objective:
To honor the contribution of women in the development and preservation of the cultural heritage of the state.
To ensure economic empowerment and self-reliance of women.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹1500/- per month. 
Eligibility
The women's age should be between 18-59 years. 
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Himachal Pradesh.
The applicant's family members do not fall into the following categories: 
Central/State Government employees/pensioners, contract/outsourced/daily wage earners/part-time, etc. 
Category employees, serving/ex-servicemen and military widows, honorarium receiving Anganwadi workers/helpers/ Asha Workers/Mid-Day Meal Workers, Multi-Task Workers, Social Security Pension Beneficiaries, Employees of Panchayat Raj Institutions/Urban Local Bodies, Pensioners/Pensioners working in various Public Undertakings/Boards/Councils/Agencies under Central/State Government, for Goods and Services Tax Be a registered person and income tax payer etc.
Buddhist nuns (Chomo) living permanently in Buddhist monasteries.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Welfare Officer or Tehsil Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Tehsil Welfare Office.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Tehsil Welfare Office to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Valid Age Certificate
Himachali Bonafide/Native Certificate
Photocopy of Bank Passbook/Post Office Account Number
Photocopy of Aadhar Card
Photocopy of Ration Card
Buddhist Nuns Certificate (issued by the Panchayat or the chief nun (Chief Chomo) of the Buddhist monastery)
Disability Certificate (if required)
