Award Of Incentive For Marriage Between Persons With Benchmark Disabilities & Other Person
Odisha
MarriagePersons With Disability
Details
"Award of Incentive for Marriage between Persons with Benchmark Disabilities & Other Person" is a scheme introduced in 2018 by the Department of Social Security & Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Government of Odisha. The scheme's goal is to help people with disabilities live normal and dignified lives and to encourage others to marry people with disabilities. The government introduced this scheme to facilitate and fulfill mandates under Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and the National Trust for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999.

Benefits
The amount of incentive is fixed at ₹ 2,50,000/- and shall be disbursed to the couple through IFMS.
The amount of incentive shall be locked in for 3 years. 
Withdrawal is allowed in three phases with the withdrawal of 10% of the funds after 6 months, the next 10% after one year, and the balance of 80% of the funds after the successful completion of 3 years of the marriage. 
The couple can withdraw under the joint signature.
Eligibility
The bridegroom and the bride must have completed 21 years and 18 years of age respectively at the time of the marriage. 
Both of the spouses should be residents of Odisha State.
The cash incentive award can be given to either of the spouses with a benchmark disability if another person marries a Person with a Benchmark Disability (Disability Percentage of 40% or above). 
The said marriage should be dowry free.
Neither of the spouses should have availed of the incentive award under this scheme earlier.
The beneficiary qualifying for the incentive of both the Departments i.e. ST & SC Development, Minorities, and Backward Class Welfare Department, and the Department of SSEPD will be left to opt to avail the benefit under one Department to avoid duplication.
Application Process
Online
Visit the official website of the department i.e https://ssepd.odisha.gov.in/

In the "Beneficiary Services" section, click "Marriage Incentive".

You will be redirected to the Online Application Form.
Fill in the application form including UDID Certificate Number, upload the signature of your spouse and yourself, and click "Submit". 
The applicants may take printout of the system-generated application on complete documentation for his/her record.
Documents Required
Disability Certificate (issued by District Medical Board as notified by the Government)
Marriage Registration Certificate (issued by the competent registration authority of marriages)
Self-attested Post Card Size Joint Photograph of the couple.
Residential certificate issued by the Tahsildar or any other authentic Proof of residence.
Aadhaar linked joint bank account of husband & wife along with Bank authorization for e-transfer of the fund through IFMS.
Note: 
In case an applicant without Aadhaar seeks marriage incentive, the person will have to submit proof of his/her application for Aadhaar. 
Aadhaar seeding in such cases will be expedited at the Department level and thereafter incentive requests will be considered for sanction.
