Mukhya Mantri Mahila Sashaktikaran Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
EmploymentMahilaSashaktikaranTrainingWoman
Details
The scheme "Mukhya Mantri Mahila Sashaktikaran Yojana" was launched by the Women and Child Development Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh, in September 2013. Under this scheme, permanent training will be provided for the economic and social upliftment of women suffering from any form of violence and living in difficult circumstances so that they can get employment.
   If women suffering from any form of violence do not get family support, then all avenues of livelihood are closed and in such difficult circumstances, special support is required to rehabilitate the family and society. By linking these victimized women to skill development training programme that promote self-reliance, they can support themselves and their families. With this objective, this scheme has been launched in the state.
Objective:
To help women in Emergency Situations.
To re-establish the sufferers/victim woman.
To encourage women for self-employment.
To make women independent.
To increase the Social, Economic, and educational levels of women.
To make the distressed/victimized/helpless/destitute women self-reliant and rehabilitate them in the mainstream of society.

Benefits
Under this scheme, permanent training will be provided on various subjects like: 
Pharmacy, Beautician, Hotel/Event Management
Nursing, Short Term Management Course (Cooking/Banking), Laboratory Assistant
Physiotherapy, I.T.I./Polytechnic Course, B.Ed./D.Ed. etc.
Only from Government Institutions:
Aaya/Dai/Ward Nurse Hospitality, other training as the Government prescribes from time to time.
Note: This training will be conducted by institutions whose degrees or certificates are recognized as valid for government and non-government services.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a rape victim woman or girl. 
The applicant should be a BPL woman saved from trafficking. 
The applicant should be an acid attack victim. 
The applicant should be a woman who completed their prison sentence. 
The applicant should be a BPL woman who is abandoned/ divorced. 
The applicant should be a girl/woman in distress residing in government and non-government shelter homes, girls’ homes, maintenance homes, etc.
The applicant should be a dowry victim woman.
The applicant should be a victim of child marriage.
Application Process
Offline
The application will be submitted by the woman to the office of the District Women Programme Officer by post or by appearing in person.
Note: The eligible applicant may also contact the nearest Anganwadi Centre.
Documents Required
Applicant’s Photo ID Proof
Aadhaar Card 
Proof of age
Other necessary documents if required
