Poshan Aahaar- Madhya Pradesh
Madhya Pradesh
AahaarAnganwadiChildLactating MotherNutritious FoodPoshanPregnant Woman
Details
The "Poshan Aahaar" scheme was implemented by the Women and Child Development Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh. Under this scheme, children from 6 months to 6 years, pregnant women, and malnourished children are given nutritious food through Anganwadis. About 80 lakh beneficiaries are being benefitted from supplementary nutrition in the sanctioned Anganwadis. 50% of the amount spent on the provision of supplementary nutrition in Anganwadi centers is provided by the Government of India.
     As per the new norms laid down by the Government of India, the State Government has made provisions to provide supplementary nutrition to children in the age group of 6 months to 6 years in Anganwadi centers, as well as to pregnant and lactating mothers and malnourished children, per beneficiary per day as follows.

Benefits
Through Aanganwadis children from 6 months to 6 Years, Pregnant Women, and Malnourished Children will be given nutrition as under:
Children from 6 months to 3 years, Pregnant and Lactating Mothers: Food items are being provided through MP Agro, State Rural Livelihood Mission, and other suppliers division-wise for 5 days a week on different days as per the following:-
Sl. No. Name of Food Items Beneficiary Quantity of Daily Food Items
1 Wheat Soya Burfi (Premix) Pregnant/lactating mothers 150 grams
2 Atta Besan Laddu (Premix) Pregnant/lactating mothers 150 grams
3 Halwa (premix) Children from 06 months to 03 years 120 grams
4 Child Food (Premix) Children from 06 months to 03 years 120 grams
5 A dish in South Asian cuisine made of rice and lentils Children from 06 months to 03 years/ pregnant/ lactating mothers 125 grams/150 grams
Children between 3 to 6 years: In the child development projects in rural areas, there is a provision for providing supplementary nutrition to children between 3 to 6 years of age in the form of breakfast and lunch separately through a common kitchen as per the following menu:-
Day Breakfast Lunch
Monday Sweet Lapsi Roti-vegetable-lentil
Tuesday Nutritious Khichdi  Kheer-Pudi-Mungvadi-Potato Tomato Vegetable
Wednesday Sweet Lapsi Roti-vegetable-lentil
Thursday Salted porridge  Veg Pulao-Pakora Kadhi
Friday Upma Roti-vegetable-lentil
Saturday Sweet Lapsi Roti-vegetable-lentil/rice sambhar
Note: In the child development projects of urban areas, there is a provision of providing nutritious food to children between 3 to 6 years of age as per the menu of the Common Chulha Programme through the local self-help groups.
Third meal for underweight children aged 6 months to 6 years:
Third meal will be provided to underweight children aged 6 months to 6 years registered in the Aaganwadi Centre as per the lunch menu on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and as per the breakfast menu on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
All children and mothers registered in the Anganwadi can take benefit of the scheme.
Children aged 6 months to 6 years, pregnant women, lactating mothers, and malnourished children are eligible under the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Identify the nearest Anganwadi Centre in your area. You can find this information through local government offices.
Step 2: Visit the nearest Anganwadi Centre during its working hours. Ensure you bring necessary identification and documentation (e.g., ID proof, proof of address, and any relevant certificates).
Step 3: Request the application form for the relevant scheme or service from the Anganwadi worker.
Step 4: Carefully fill out the application form with all required details, including personal information, eligibility criteria, and any other requested information.
Step 5: Submit the completed application form and attached documents to the Anganwadi worker. Ensure you receive an acknowledgment receipt for your submission.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Samagra ID
Birth certificate
Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
Anganwadi enrolment number
Other necessary documents if asked by Anganwadi
