Kanya Saksharta Protsahan Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
GirlIncentiveKanyaScheduled TribeStudent
Details
The scheme "Kanya Saksharta Protsahan Yojana" was launched by the Tribal Welfare Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to motivate girls towards education, the scheme is being implemented to increase the interest of girls of scheduled tribes in the state towards education as well as to make them get education in more and more upcoming classes. Under this scheme, girls in Class 11th who have passed their 10th class examination will receive ₹3,000/- per year as a monetary incentive.

Benefits
Under this scheme, all girls belonging to Scheduled Tribes who have passed Class 10th and are entering Class 11th will receive an incentive amount of ₹3,000/- per year.
Note: The incentive amount will be paid into the bank accounts of the girl students.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a girl.
The girl student should be a native/resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The girl student should belong to the Scheduled Tribe community.
The applicant should be a regular student.
All girls who have passed Class 10th and are entering Class 11th are eligible for the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 1: Go to the official website of the "Madhya Pradesh Shiksha Portal" using a web browser.
Step 2: Click on ‘eKYC’.
Step 3: Enter your mobile number and captcha, then click on "Get OTP."
Step 4: Enter the OTP and go to the next page.
Step 5: Enter your Samagra ID and captcha code, then click ‘OK’.
Step 6: The student's basic information will be displayed, such as the names of the father and mother, date of birth, school, etc.
Step 7: Click on Aadhaar eKYC, enter your Aadhaar number, and click to get OTP.
Step 8: Enter the OTP and click ‘Submit’.
Step 9: Read all the information carefully before proceeding, then click ‘Submit’.
Process to apply for scheme benefits:
Step 1: Go to the official website of the "Madhya Pradesh Shiksha Portal" using a web browser.
Step 2: Click on ‘login’.
Step 3: Enter the User name, Password, Captcha and click on ‘login’.
Step 4: Click on ‘Login’ and select the scheme name.
Step 5: After clicking on the scheme name then enter your name, father's name, Samagra ID, Aadhaar number, bank account, etc.
Step 6: Now upload your photo, signature, and required documents. Remember, the fields marked with an asterisk (*) are mandatory.
Step 7: After filling in all your information details and uploading the documents, click on ‘Submit’.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Passport-size photograph
Samagra ID
Caste certificate
Bank account details/bank passbook
Income Certificate
Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
Previous class passing mark sheet
Other necessary documents if required
