Banishree Scholarship
Odisha
Education & LearningStudent Finance
Details
A Scheme of Scholarship for Students with special needs in the name of "Banishree Scheme" was introduced by the Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Department, Government of Odisha with the aim to assist and encourage students to study as well acquire technical/ professional/ vocational training. This scheme aims to offer some special allowances to disabled children so that they can pursue their education without any financial crunch.

Benefits
Rates of Scholarship
A. Inside the State: 
Primary (Standard I to V): ₹400/-
Middle and High School (Standard VI to VIII and IX to XI) (Not covered by the Government of India Scholarship) : ₹500/-
College (+2 & +3) (Not covered by the Government of India Scholarship) : ₹600/-
College (P.G.) (Not covered by the Government of India Scholarship) : ₹700/-
Technical and vocational training (Not covered by Govt. of India Scholarship) : ₹700/-
B. Outside the State:
Students prosecuting normal course of study or technical/vocational/professional education/training not available in the State and not covered by Govt. of India Scholarship shall get ₹250 per month. 
In case of visually challenged candidates, Reader’s Allowance shall be paid at ₹200 per month for primary classes and ₹300 per month for middle and high school classes and ₹400 per month for other studies, if it is certified by the head of the institution that the candidate has continuously employed a reader during the period of study, subject to the condition that such assistance is not availed of from Govt. of India.
In case of orthopedically handicapped student who has 75% or above disabilities requiring special arrangements for transport, an additional monthly allowance of ₹200 per month may be sanctioned for transport, if it is not covered by the scheme of integrated education.
Eligibility
The scheme shall apply to students:
Pursuing primary education (Std. I to V).
Reading in middle & high schools (std. VI to X), 
Not covered by Govt. of India Scholarship.
Reading in colleges/universities, not covered by Government of India Scholarship.
Reading in special schools registered under PWD, Act 1995, but not receiving grant-in-aid from State/ Central Govt.
Pursuing distance education through recognized universities/Govt. institutes.
Pursuing technical/ vocational/ professional education in any of the recognized institutes.
For the purpose of award of scholarship under the scheme, applications can be submitted subject to fulfilling the following conditions:–
The applicant must be a bonafide resident of Odisha.
The applicant should be a regular student of an educational institution.
The parental/family income of the applicant is not more than ₹60,000 per annum.
The applicant is not receiving any financial assistance/stipend/scholarship from State Government/ Central Government under any other scheme.
The student will continue to get the scholarship if he enrolls and regularly attends any recognized institution irrespective of whether he has passed or not in a particular year.
Application Process
Online
Visit the official website of the department i.e https://ssepd.odisha.gov.in/

In the "Beneficiary Services" section, click "Banishree Scholarship".

You will be redirected to the Online Application Form.
Choose the relevant option out of : New Application/ Recommended Application from Principal/Head of the Institution
On clicking one of the options, click proceed. On proceeding initially it is mandatory that applicant  may get his/her Aadhaar details first. After verifying the application form will open.
Fill in the application form including UDID Certificate Number, upload the signature of your spouse and yourself, and click "Submit". 
The applicants may take printout of the system-generated application on complete documentation for his/her record.
Documents Required
Documents to accompany the application
Each application shall be accompanied by the following documents:–
Disability Certificate issued by Medical Board
Income Certificate issued by Revenue Officer, not below the rank of Tahasildar or any other officer of equivalent status.
Mark sheets of the last examination passed duly attested by a Gazetted Officer or the Head of the Institution concerned. 
NOTE: An income Certificate is not required in case the student belongs to a BPL family.
