Mukhyamantri Baristha Bunakar and Karigara Sahayata Yojana
Odisha
Baristha BunakarFinancial AssistanceKarigara SahayataSenior Artisans And Weavers
Details
The "Mukhyamantri Baristha Bunakar and Karigara Sahayata Yojana" is a welfare scheme initiated by the Handlooms, Textiles and Handicrafts Department, Government of Odisha to provide financial assistance to elderly individuals involved in weaving and craft work, who may face economic difficulties.
Objective:- 
To provide social security to the baristha bunakar and karigar of the state & to ensure them a decent level of living.
To enable him/her free from additional financial burden due to illness, injury, need for care, unemployment & other unforeseen expenses, etc.
To take care of old age and other consequences resulting therefrom.
Note: The Directorate of Textiles, Odisha and Directorate of Handicrafts, Odisha shall be the implementing agency of this scheme.

Benefits
The financial assistance for weavers & ancillary workers /handicraft artisan shall be as follows:
S.No Category Age of the Beneficiary Quantum of Assistance (in Rs.)
1 Female More than 40 years to less than 80 years 2000
2 Male More than 50 years to less than 80 years 2000
3 Both Female & Male 80 years or more 2500
Eligibility
He/ She must be a permanent resident/domicile of Odisha.
Weavers & Ancillary Workers and Handicraft Artisans to be eligible for assistance under the scheme should be 40 years & above in case of female and 50 years & above in case of male.
His/ Her name must be in the final list of weavers & ancillary workers and artisans as per the latest survey. The National awardees, Stale awardees, Kalakruti awardees, Tantakruti Awardees including Design/ Merit certificate awardees in Handloom & Handicraft sectors will also be eligible irrespective of their names placed in the above survey list, if they are otherwise eligible. The beneficiaries out of above survey list may be screened further by HT&H Department officials in the district or other such officer as would be appointed by the District Collector.
Only one member of the family shall be eligible to get the assistance under this Scheme irrespective of the number of family members fulfilling the eligibility criteria.
The annual income of the family should not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh) The Income Certificate issued by Concerned Tahasildar/ Additional Tahasildar or any other competent authority of Revenue Department is acceptable.
Govt. employees, lncome Tax payers, Retired Govt. employees of Govt. of India and/or any State Government will not be eligible to get the assistance from the scheme.
A Handloom weaver/ Ancillary worker/ Handicraft Artisan wilt not be eligible if he/ she is availing similar benefits under any other scheme of the State Government like Madhubabu Pension Yojana, Mukhyamantri Kalakar Sahayata Yojana, etc., and any other scheme of Government of India.
A Handloom weaver/ Ancillary worker/ Handicraft Artisan will not be eligible if he/ she has been convicted of any criminal offence.
Financial Assistance under this scheme to a beneficiary shall be effective from the date of approval of District Level Selection Committee.
Application Process
Offline
Application in the prescribed format (Annexure-l) along with required documents shall be submitted to The Director of Textiles & Handlooms and the Director of Handicrafts
After required scrutiny the qualified applications shall be placed before the District Level Selection Committee on quarterly basis. Beneficiary once enrolled and received assistance under this scheme, need not apply again.
Documents Required
The following list of Documents are to be submitted/ uploaded along with the application form.
Recent passport size colour photograph of the applicant.
Self attested Xerox copy of the first page of the individual Aadhar seeded Savings Bank passbook showing photograph, full name, name of father/ spouse, address, Bank Branch, Account Number and IFSC details in which the assistance will be deposited. 
Account must be in the name of the applicant as submitted in the application form. 
Account must be opened in Bank with Core-Banking facility to enable digital transfer of assistance.
Annual income certificate from the concerned Tahasildar/ Additional Tahasildar or any other competent authority of Revenue Department.
Wherever applicable, self attested copy of Award certificates if any, received from Govt. of India or Government of Odisha. (it name of the applicant is not incorporated in respective survey list)
A self declaration in the prescribed format attached to the application form.
The declaration should include the followings:-
that he/she is not in receipt of any other similar financial assistance/pension from the State or Central Government.
That if after receiving the benefit, the information provided by him/her is found to be false or erroneous or he/she is found lo be ineligible to get the benefit subsequently, the disbursed amount shall be recovered from him/her as per OPDR Act 1962.
That he/she has not been convicted of any criminal offence.
Proof of Age: The age of the applicant mentioned in the application is to be verified from any one of the following categories:
Electoral Photo Identity Card.
AADHAAR Card
High School Certificate
Birth Registration Certificate.
