Videsh Siksha Yojana (MPBOCWWB)
Madhya Pradesh
AbroadBuilding WorkerConstruction WorkerFinancial AssistanceHigher EducationScholarship
Details
The scheme “Videsh Siksha Yojana” has implemented by the Madhya Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (MPBOCWWB) under the Labor Department of Madhya Pradesh for the children of registered construction workers from the year 2019. According to the scheme, there is a provision to provide assistance for study abroad to a maximum of 50 students every year to the children of registered construction workers to pursue quality higher education in recognized institutions abroad. Under the scheme, the selected students are entitled to scholarships and other benefits for courses at the postgraduate level and a research degree (Ph.D.) for two years abroad. 

Benefits
The following financial assistance will be provided to the applicant for pursuing education under the scheme:-
Tuition Fee: Payment of actual tuition fee or up to $40,000, whichever is less.
Subsistence Allowance: A maximum of $10,000 per year, based on the monthly expenditure in India and abroad as shown by the educational institution where the student is studying.
In addition to the visa fee and insurance premium, second-class rail/bus fare from the place of residence to the airport and back and actual economy-class airfare to the nearest place of the educational institution and back will be payable.
Note: The amount of grant will be credited into the student's account as per the prescribed fee payment schedule of the educational institution upon production of a certificate of continuity of studies in the institution.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a child of a construction worker.
Either parent of the applicant should be registered with the Madhya Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and hold a valid identity card for a continuous period of 5 years.
To pursue a postgraduate degree, it is mandatory for the applicant to have passed the graduation degree with 60% marks in the first division or its equivalent grade.
For PhD degree, it is essential to have passed a postgraduate degree with 60% marks in the first division and 02 years of teaching/research/M.Phil degree in the relevant field.
If the student is receiving benefits from any other source, he/she will not be eligible for this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: To avail of benefits under the scheme, the eligible applicant may visit the ‘Shram Sewa Portal’ of the Madhya Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. 
Step 2: On the homepage, click on "Yojana Aavedan".
Step 3: Enter the Worker Registration Number to view details.
Step 4: Select the scheme and click "Apply for Scheme".
Step 5: Complete the online application form by filling in all required details and submit your application.
Designated Officer for Approval:
Secretary Madhya Pradesh Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Bhopal
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Aadhaar card of applicant/student
Valid identity card of the worker
Ration Card
Proof of residence
Educational qualification certificates of the student
Passport & Visa
Bank Passbook/bank account details
Any other documents as required
