Sukhad Sahara Yojana
Chhattisgarh
BPLDeserted WomanFinancial AssistanceWidow
Details
The "Sukhad Sahara Yojana" was launched by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh. Under this scheme, financial assistance are provided to the widows and deserted women who are living below poverty line (BPL) to support them in living a respectful life.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive financial assistance of ₹500/- per month.
Note: The amount of assistance will be directly transferred to the applicant's bank account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The applicant should be either a widow or a deserted woman.
The age of the widow should be between 18 and 39 years.
The age of the deserted woman should be 18 years or older.
The applicant's name should be included in the list of families living Below Poverty Line.
The applicant should not be receiving pension benefits from any other Central or State Government pension scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online
In Rural Areas:
Step 1: The applicant, who fulfills the eligibility criteria, may visit the office of the Gram Panchayat and collect the application form, which is available free of cost.
Step 2: Fill out the application form and submit it to the Gram Panchayat. You will receive an acknowledgment receipt from the Gram Panchayat.
Step 3: The Gram Panchayat will review and recommend the application and then forward it to the District Panchayat within 07 days.
In Urban Areas:
Step 1: Eligible applicants should visit the office of the concerned Municipal Corporation, Municipality, Nagar Panchayat, or Panchayat Raj institution to collect the application form, which is available free of cost.
Step 2: Fill out the application form and submit it to the respective office (Municipality/Municipal Corporation/Nagar Panchayat). You will receive an acknowledgment receipt from the office.
Note 1: The concerned urban body/District Panchayat has the authority to approve or reject the applications.
Note 2: If a printed application form is not available, you may submit your application on plain paper.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof 
Domicile certificate of Chhattisgarh
Proof of age
Death certificate of husband (In case of widow)
Certificate of abandonment by the husband
Below Poverty Line Certificate/related documents
Bank/Post office account passbook
Any other documents as required
(Required Documents)
