Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan - Internship Program
Ministry Of Panchayati Raj
InternshipResearch ScolarsStudents
Details
For Implementation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme of "Revamped Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan" (RGSA) (2022-23 to 2025-26), the Ministry of Panchayati Raj (MoPR), seeks to engage Students enrolled/pursuing undergraduate, graduate, or postgraduate degree programs and 'Young Research Scholars' enrolled/pursuing Doctoral (Ph.D.) or post-doctoral degrees in given academic disciplines below from recognized/reputed University(s)/Institution(s) within India or abroad for short-term (maximum of 3 months only) through an Internship program. The engagement of 'Selected Candidates' as 'Interns' will work in various Units, Cells, and Programmes of different Divisions of MoPR under the Revamped RGSA Scheme for the period of FY 2022-23 to 2025-26. The ‘Internship Program’ is specifically focusing on the ‘Office set-up of MoPR’. A detail list of intended domains/subject areas of research for which the ‘Interns’ are invited and shall be engaged is enclosed in ‘Annexure – A’ of detailed guidelines.
Objectives of the Program
To engage 'Students' and 'Research Scholars for tapping academic talents, knowledge, skills, and techniques to be best utilized and associated with the MoPR's Policy and Action Research work for mutual benefits.
The 'Interns' shall have an opportunity to know and get in-hand experience on the Stier Local Self-governments and other Government functioning, policies, schemes, development initiatives, and interventions for rural development in context to the socioeconomic, cultural, and political aspects.
The 'Interns' will have to provide relevant and logical inputs, suggestions, and recommendations through Data Analysis, Situational Analysis, Empirical and Evidence-Based Research through Quantitative & Qualitative Data Analysis, Desk Reviews, and Policy Analysis at the 'Office setup of MoPR' for preparing Policy Briefs and Working Papers.

Benefits
The selected candidates will receive a certificate of completion.
The Internship Program, MoPR shall provide a flat rate/amount of Rs.7,000/- per month as ‘stipend’ to the ‘Intern’, depending on the best applicants.
Eligibility
The applicants i.e., ‘Students’ are enrolled/pursuing Undergraduate/Graduate/Postgraduate degree programme or ‘Research Scholars’ enrolled/pursuing Doctoral (Ph.D.)/Post-Doctoral degree in recognised/reputed University(s)/Institution(s) or completed any of the mentioned course , within last 2 years from India or Abroad are eligible to apply for the Internship Program. 
The preferred academic disciplines of Public Policy Studies, Social Policy Studies, Development Studies, Economics, Governance and Public Administration Studies, Rural Development Management, Business Administration, Environment and Energy Studies, Public Health Studies, Sociology, Political Science, Social Work, Statistics, Data Analysis, and other relevant Social Sciences, Management, and Engineering streams.
The duration of the Internship Program shall be at least 15 days, but ‘NOT’ exceeding six (6) months. 
MoPR shall provide them working space, Internet facility, library access, and other necessary requirements for their assignment(s) and deliverables. Interns will be required to have their own laptop. 
The candidates those who are not expecting any stipend/honorarium, may also join by the approval of DH of Program Division for Pro bono manner. 
Application Process
Online
The candidates needs to register himself on ServicePlus website if not already registered.
Once registered, the applicant visit the website of the ministry to apply for the scheme. Under "RGSA" section, click MoPR Internship.
A new webpage will open, the applicant will enter his login details to apply for the scheme.
After log in, the applicant click on Apply Service tab, then online application form for the scheme will open.
The applicant enter all the details. Choose "Area of Interest" and upload photograph and submit the application form.
Note:
A candidate can apply for an internship only once during a financial year. 
The application will be valid for consideration for the entirety of the financial year in which the application is made.
At the time of joining on selection, applicants shall be required to produce a letter from their 'Principal'/'Head of Department'/'Supervisor', indicating their status in the Institution/University and `No Objection Certificate' (NOC) for allowing their student to undergo Internship Program for the period for which s/he is selected.
Documents Required
At the time of joining on selection, the applicants shall be required to produce a letter from their Supervisor/ Head of Department/ or principal indicating their status in the institution and a “No Objection” certificate for allowing their student to undergo an Internship program for the period for which they are selected.
