Chief Minister Kanya Utthan Yojana
Bihar
EmpowermentFinancial SupportGirl Child
Details
This scheme is to stop female feticide, encourage girl birth, encourage birth registration, complete vaccination of 02-year-old girls, increase the gender ratio, reduce girl child mortality rate, promote girl education, Curb child marriage, reduce the total fertility rate and bring girls into the mainstream of society by making them self-reliant, as a result of which girls will contribute significantly to the development of family and society.
The objective of the Scheme:
Stopping female foeticide.
To encourage the birth of a girl child.
To increase the sex ratio.
To encourage birth registration.
Complete vaccination of 2-year-old girls.
To reduce the girl-child mortality rate.
Promotion of girl child education.
To curb child marriage.
Bringing down the total fertility rate and bringing the girl child into the mainstream of society by making her self-reliant.
Management of scheme funds:
Funds will be arranged for this scheme by the state government, under this the amount will be made available to the Assistant Director, District Child Protection Unit from the Directorate of Social Welfare. After which the amount will be transferred to the bank account of the beneficiary's parent/ guardian by the Assistant Director, District Child Protection Unit.

Benefits
Target Group
To the girl child born from the date of issue of notification.
Given only to two girl children of the family.
Payable to a family resident in Bihar.

Nature of Grant:
Rs. 2,000/- will be transferred to the Parents/guardians of every girl child in the age group from 0 to 1 year. 
After the completion of 1 year of the girl child and Aadhaar registration, the amount of Rs. 1,000/- will be payable again in the same account.
Eligibility
The girl children should be residents of Bihar.
The birth has been duly registered.
The benefit of this scheme will be payable to the girl child born from the date of issue of the notification.
This benefit will be given only to two girl children of a family.
On the first day of the date of the beneficiary application of the scheme, Rs. 2,000 and for the second child of 1-2 years, Rs. 1,000 will be payable to the mother/father/guardian of the girl child after fulfilling all the prescribed conditions.
Application Process
Offline
To take advantage of this scheme, the application form will be available at all Anganwadi centers of the Child Development Project.
The application form for this scheme will be made available free of cost by the maids of all Anganwadi centers.
For the benefit of this scheme, the applicant will fill the application in the prescribed form and submit it at the concerned Anganwadi centers along with all the necessary documents.
Child Development Project Officer will be the acceptance officer for this.
Registering the application form filled by the acceptance officer, the Assistant Director will make it available to the District Child Protection Unit.
Office of the Assistant Director District Child Protection Unit will compile the list of applications and take action to transfer the allocated amount to the beneficiary's mother/father/guardian's account.
Documents Required
Photocopy of the Residential Certificate.
Photocopy of Birth Registration Certificate.
Photocopy of Identity Card.
In respect of two girl children, the columns of the prescribed application form will be attested by the Anganwadi worker.
