Mukhyamantri Shramik Aujaar Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Building WorkerConstruction WorkersFinancial AssistanceLabour Tools
Details
The Labor Department of Chhattisgarh launched the "Mukhyamantri Shramik Aujaar Sahayata Yojana" on October 1, 2010, through the Building and Construction Workers Welfare Board. Under this scheme, 10,000 tool kits are distributed annually to registered construction workers, including masons, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, porters, painters, and others, who have been registered with the board for a minimum of 90 days.

Benefits
Tool kits can given free of cost to the registered construction worker.
Eligibility
The Applicant must be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The beneficiary should be a construction worker.
The beneficiary should be registered under the Building and Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The age of the registered worker should not be less than 18 years.
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Construction Worker Under  CBOCWWB
Step-1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department.
Step-2: On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board".
Step-3: Enter the following details
Select : "Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board"
Select Service : "Labour Registration"
What do you want to do : "Registration Application"
Click Proceed.
Step-4: Now enter your details :Name
Father name.
Aadhar card.
D.O.B.
Age.
Step-5: Click on submit only after uploading all the important information and documents given in Part 1, Part 2, Part 3.
Step-6: When you click on submit, your registration ID will be sent to your mobile and email.
Apply
Step-1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
Step-2: On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
Step-3:  Enter the following details
Select : "Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board".
Select Service : Scheme
What do you want to do : "Application".
Click Proceed.
Step-4: Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click proceed.
Step-5: When you enter the district and registration number, an OTP will be sent to your mobile for verification. 
Step-6: After this, a dashboard will open in front of you, containing information about your name, address, age, and caste etc.
Step-7: After that, you select your Yojana and upload your important documents and basic information.
Step-8: Click "Submit" to register yourself for this scheme.
Documents Required
Bank passbook photocopy.
Self-declaration certificate in the prescribed form issued by the government in respect of the employer.
Worker's Aadhaar Card.
Birth Certificate.
Passport-size photograph.
Residence Poof.
Labour card.
