Vegetable Development Scheme
Meghalaya
AgricultureFarmerPoly HouseSubsidyVegetable ProductionVegetable Seed
Details
The scheme “Vegetable Development Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to promote vegetable production through HYV seeds/Hybrids/Improved/Open Pollinated seedlings, including assistance to farmers.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Supply of seeds/ seedlings and garden tools at 50% sales subsidy.
Demonstration on improved methods of vegetable cultivation at the rate 2,600 per farmer is provisioned.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If Any):
Sl. No. Entitlement Owantum of Assistance
1 To promote vegetable production by providing hybrid, HYV, and OP quality vegetable seed to farmers including horticultural tools and implements. 50% sale to the farmers.
2 To promote the production of off-season and high-value vegetables under protected cultivation by providing poly houses to farmers. 100% assistance for 100sqm per unit area.
3 To assist farmers in trellis making for squash and other creepers vegetables with locally available materials like bamboo wood etc. Assistance is limited to 200 sqm per beneficiary @ ₹10,000/unit.
Eligibility
The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The small and marginal farmers having sufficient available cultivable land can apply under the scheme.
Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/Horticulture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
The eligible bonafide farmers will be selected on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact: Below officials can be contacted for any concerns or queries:
District Horticulture Officer
Horticulture Development Officer
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity Proof
Bank passbook/account details
Documents proof of being a small or marginal farmer
Any other document as required
