Craftsman Training Scheme - Maharashtra
Maharashtra
CraftsmanSkill DevelopmentStipendTraining
Details
The "Craftsman Training Scheme" was launched by the Skill Development, Employment and Entrepreneurship Department, Government of Maharashtra. This stipend aims to support the trainees financially and encourage them to pursue and complete their vocational training, thereby contributing to skilled manpower development in the state.

Benefits
Stipend ₹500/- per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Maharashtra state.
The applicant should belong to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Freed Castes and Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes, Special Backward Classes, Minority Communities and Open Category economically backward
The annual income of parents should not exceed ₹8,00,000/-. 
Only two siblings within a family are eligible for this benefit.
The trainee should maintain an average of 80% attendance.
The trainee should be passing the first year to enroll in a 2-year trade.
SC trainees with an annual income of less than ₹2,50,000/- are also eligible for the Post Matric Scholarship.
Trainees suspended or found non-eligible for the All India Trade Test (AITT) will not qualify.
Trainees who have left the GITI are not eligible from their date of departure.
Trainees in PITI are ineligible for this scheme.
Application Process
Online
MAHA DBT Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit the official website. 
Step 02: Click "New Applicant Registration" and fill in the Applicant Name, Username, Confirm Password, Email ID, and Mobile Number.
Step 03: Fill in the Captcha, OTP and Click to "Register"

Login and Apply
Step 01: Click "Applicant Login" and Enter your registered username, password
Step 02: Enter the security text shown in the image and click on the "Login Here" button for login
Step 03: Create Your Profile Personal Information, Address Information, Current Course, Current Course, etc.
Step 04: View Suggested Eligible Schemes and Choose Scheme
Step 05: Apply for the scheme and Upload the relevant document.
Step 06: After that, you get the Application ID.

Note:
The applicant having an Aadhaar-seeded savings bank account in a nationalized bank is mandatory.
Trainee registration on the MAHA-DBT portal is compulsory.
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Domicile Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Admission Proof (Admission letter or certificate from the Government ITI).
Bank Account Details (Passbook copy showing the Aadhaar-linked bank account in a nationalized bank).
Previous Year’s Marksheets (Proof of academic performance and eligibility for continued benefit in the second year).
Caste Certificate.
