Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme- Bihar
Bihar
BPLIndira GandhiOld AgePensionSenior Citizen
Details
The scheme "Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme" is implemented by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Bihar. Under this scheme, a monthly pension is provided to elderly people (women/men) aged 60 years or above belonging to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families to support them financially. This scheme is centrally sponsored.
Objective:
The objective of this scheme is to provide social security to the elderly people of the poor family of the society by providing them financial assistance.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive monthly pension as follows:
Beneficiaries aged 60 to 79 years: ₹400/- per month
Beneficiaries aged 80 years or above: ₹500/- per month
Note: The pension amount is being paid to the beneficiaries under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) process. In this process, the pension amount is paid directly into the accounts of the beneficiaries through PFMS from the state level on the basis of the account number provided by the beneficiaries.
Eligibility
The applicant (Woman/Man) should be a resident of Bihar.
The applicant should be a senior citizen.
The applicant should be 60 years of age or older.
The applicant should belong to a Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The applicant should not be receiving pension benefits under any social security scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: To avail of the benefits of this scheme, eligible applicants should submit their duly filled and signed application in the prescribed format, along with the required attachments, at the Right to Public Service (RTPS) counter located at the block office level.
Step 2: Upon submission, applicants will receive an acknowledgment receipt from the RTPS counter, which should be kept for future reference.
Step 3: Applicants will be notified of the application's approval or rejection via SMS or email.
Step 4: If approved, the Sanction Order can be collected from the same RTPS counter where the application was submitted, upon presenting the acknowledgment receipt and a valid identity card.
Complaints & Grievance Redressal:
A special portal has been developed for grievance redressal in relation to the Social Security Pension Scheme (https://www.sspmis.bihar.gov.in/) where the beneficiary can go and register his complaint himself or can call on toll-free number 18003456262 and register his complaint free of cost through helpdesk.
The complaint can be lodged in the office of the Block Development Officer, Sub-divisional Office, Assistant Director, District Social Security Cell/District Child Protection Unit, Director, Social Security Office, and Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/Secretary, Social Welfare Department. Apart from this, under the Bihar Public Grievance Redressal Rights Act, 2016, the office of the Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the sub-divisional level and the District Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the district level are functioning.
User Manual
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof i.e. Voter ID Card, Driving License
Residence Proof
Proof of age
Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card/related documents
Caste certificate, if applicable
Address proof
Bank Passbook/Bank account details
Any other documents as required
