Disability Pension and Ex-Gratia (K.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Karnataka
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerDisabilityEx-GratiaLabourPension
Details
The "Disability Pension and Ex-Gratia'' by the BOCW Welfare Board, Department of Labour, Karnataka, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this Scheme, financial support shall be provided to registered construction workers in the form of pension who are partially disabled due to accidents or diseases incurred at their worksite. Beneficiaries may receive an ex-gratia payment depending on the extent of their disability. The pension is discontinued upon the beneficiary reaching sixty (60) years of age.

Benefits
Monthly Disability Pension: ₹2,000/-.
Additional Ex-gratia Payment: ₹2,00,000/- based on the percentage of disability.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker (Unorganised Worker).
The applicant should be a minimum of 18 years of age.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered construction worker Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Karnataka.
The applicant should be partially disabled due to worksite accidents or diseases.
The applicant should not have availed “Accident Benefits” for the same disability.
The applicant must be below sixty (60) years of age.
Note: The Disability Pension granted shall be discontinued once the beneficiary attains the age of sixty (60) years.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Register”.
Step 2: Select “Register as New Construction Worker” then enter your mobile number as per the Aadhaar Registered and verify with the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Registration”.
Step 4: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents. Click on “Final Submit” to complete the registration process.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Schemes” (After the user Registration is approved, the user can access the schemes page).
Step 4: Select the concerned scheme. Fill in all the mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 5:  Review the details and check the declaration box. Now click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Renewal Process:
Step 1: Visit the official Website of Karnataka Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (KBOCWWB) and click on “Login”.
Step 2: Enter your registered mobile number and the received OTP.
Step 3: From the dashboard, click on “Renewal”. Fill in mandatory details and upload the required documents.
Step 4: Review the details and click on “Submit” to complete the renewal process.
Note:
Renewal: Every construction worker must renew their registration with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board every 3 years. If not renewed within this period, a 1-year grace period is granted. After that, the registration becomes invalid.
Timeline: Application for this assistance can be submitted within 6 months from the date of issue of disability ID card by the competent authority.
Helpdesk:
Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board,
Address: Karmika Bhavan, Dairy Circle, Bannerghatta Road, Bangalore-29.
Office No: 080-29753078
E-mail: labour.commissioner42@gmail.com
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
Aadhar Card (Self-Attested).
Ration Card(non-mandatory).
Age Proof (Voter ID Card/Aadhar Card).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Beneficiary/original Identity card (Issued by the board).
Photocopy of beneficiary's bank passbook.
Living Certificate (every year).
Ration Card.
Employer Certificate.
Medical Report.
ID card issued by the department for the empowerment of differently abled and Senior citizens.
Photocopy of the disabled beneficiary.
For the Renewal Process:
Employment Certificate/90 Days Work Certificate (Form V(A)/V(B)/V(C)/V(D)).
Note: In case the death of Beneficiary Nominee should provide a death certificate to the Board.
