Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) And Research Associateship (RA) For Foreign Nationals
Ministry of Education
FellowshipForeignResearch
Details
INTRODUCTION 
The scheme was initiated keeping in view the political and cultural bilateral relations of India with other developing countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The scheme has opened new vistas for foreign students and teachers, enabling them to come to India and undertake advanced studies and research in sciences, humanities, and social sciences in Indian Universities. 

OBJECTIVE 
The objective of the scheme is to provide an opportunity for foreign students and teachers from
developing countries to undertake advanced study and research leading to M.Phil/Ph.D. and postdoctoral research in sciences, humanities, and social sciences at Indian Universities. 

Benefits
NATURE OF ASSISTANCE
The number of slots available under the scheme is 20 for Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) and 7 for Research Associateship (RA).
The tenure of these awards is four years (Non-extendable) for both JRF and RA.

Financial Assistance for JRF -  
Fellowship 
@ Rs. 12,000/-p.m. for an initial period of two years.
@ Rs. 14,000/-p.m. for the remaining period subject to the recommendation for enhancement/extension by a three-member committee and the Commission’s approval for  Sciences for initial two years.
Contingency - 
@ Rs.12,000/-p.a. for Science 
@ Rs.10,000/-p.a. for Humanities and Social Sciences 
@ Rs.25,000/-p.a. for the remaining period for Sciences 
@ Rs.20,500/-p.a. for the remaining period for Humanities 
Department @ Rs. 3,000/-p.a. -- per JRF Assistance 
Escort @ Rs. 2,000/-p.a. -- per JRF 
Handicapped Allowance 
HRA as per the rule of the concerned institution 

Financial Assistance for RA - 
Fellowship @ Rs. 16,000/-p.m. (Fixed) for 4 years 
Contingency @ Rs. 30,000/-p.a. 
Departmental @ 10% of Associateship to the host institution for providing Assistant infrastructural facilities. 
HRA as per the rule of the concerned institution.

*****

HRA
(i)   Suitable single-seated hostel accommodation in the institutions may be provided to the JRF, failing which HRA as per rules of the university/institution will be paid to the Fellow subject to the submission of the HRA certificate through Registrar/Principal. 
(ii)  JRF/RA provided with accommodation in a hostel recognized/maintained by the institutions may be reimbursed the hostel fee, excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. 
(iii)   A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Principal (Annexure I). 
(iv)   If JRF/RA makes his/her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Government of India. 
(v)   The Fellow will submit a certificate for this purpose to UGC for claiming HRA through the concerned university/institution/college. 

Medical
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the JRF/RA may avail of the medical facilities available in the institutions/university. 

Leave 
(i)   Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to public holidays may be taken by a fellow with the approval of the supervisor. However, they are not entitled to any other vacations, for example, summer, winter, and pooja vacations. Women awardees are eligible for maternity leave at full rates of the fellowships for 135 days as per Government of India rules once during the tenure of their award. 
(ii)   The awardee may in special cases be allowed by the Commission leave without fellowship/associateship and contingency for a period not exceeding three months during the tenure of the award on the recommendation of the supervisor/Head of the department of the institution concerned. The period of leave without fellowship/associateship will be counted towards the tenure. 
Eligibility
Target Group: Students and teachers from developing countries of Asia/Africa and Latin America. 

For Junior Research Fellowship (JRF): 35 years for male candidates as of 1st July of the year of application and 40 years for female candidates. The candidates must have at least a high-class master’s degree with a second-class bachelor’s degree or a second-class master’s degree with a first-class bachelor’s degree. 

For Research Associateship (RA): In the case of male applicants the age should be 40 years as of 1st July of the year of application, and 45 years in the case of female candidates. The candidates must have a doctorate degree, published research work to their credit, and evidence of independent research work. 
Application Process
Online
PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR THE SCHEME: 
The applications are invited through the circulation to Indian embassies/Indian missions abroad. They will receive applications from eligible candidates and after due screening locally, will send them to the UGC for consideration. Foreign students from Asia, Africa, and Latin America studying in India who have completed their master’s degrees or doctoral degrees and desire to pursue research may send their applications through the university they propose to work with. The application will have to be endorsed by their respective embassies for consideration by the 
Commission. 

PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL BY THE UGC 
The applications received are placed before a short listing/screening committee constituted for this purpose. The short-listed proposals are placed before the selection committee to finalize the proposals for the award of JRF and RA. The decision of the Commission is final and binding. The UGC conveys the provisional intimation of selection to the candidate. However, this intimation does not bestow the award to the candidate. The formal award letter will be issued only on receipt of political clearance from the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. The Commission also reserves the right to withdraw/cancel the award without assigning any reason.
Documents Required
Proof of Nationality
Proof of Identity
Proof of Age
Proof of Address
Proof reg. the Educational Qualifications
