Free Distribution of Blankets and Chappals to Senior Citizen
Puducherry
ClothesSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Free Distribution of Blankets and Chappals to Senior Citizen" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The objective of this scheme is to enable the poor senior citizens, aged 60 years and above and residing in Puducherry, to receive blankets and chappals. The applicant should be a recipient of Old Age Pension.

Benefits
One Blanket and One Pair of Chappals Every Year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry.
The age of the applicant should be 60 years or above.
The applicant should be a recipient of Old Age Pension.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, Issued by the Competent Authority.
Recent Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Address Proof.
Age Proof.
Ration Card.
