State Award for the Welfare of the Handicapped
Puducherry
AwardDisabilityEmployeeEmployerPwDSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “State Award for the Welfare of the Handicapped” was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, the individuals and institutions are conferred awards on 3rd December every year (International Day for Differently Abled) to encourage them to become economically productive to serve the cause of differently abled Persons. 

Benefits
Outstanding Differently Abled Government / Private Employee:  ₹ 10,000/-.
Outstanding Differently Abled Self-employed Persons:  ₹ 10,000/-.
Individual Serving for the Cause of the Differently Abled:  ₹ 15,000/-.
Institutions Serving the Cause of the Differently Abled:  ₹ 25,000/- (Subject to Financial Selection by the State-level Committee).
Government Employer:  Citation With Shield.
Private Employer:  Citation With Shield.
*The awards are conferred on 3rd December every year (International Day for Differently Abled).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Disability Certificate.
Pension Card (if applicable).
Necessary Documents for the Respective Category.
