Supply of Sarees and Dhoties to Differently Abled Persons
Puducherry
ClothesDisabilityPwDSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Supply of Sarees and Dhoties to Differently Abled Persons” is launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, free dhothies and sarees or equivalent Direct Benefit Transfer are provided to the differently abled persons who are benefited under the monthly financial assistance schemes in lieu of Diwali / Pongal / local regional festivals.

Benefits
Free Dhothies and Sarees or Equivalent Direct Benefit Transfer during Diwali / Pongal / local regional festivals.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/- per annum.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
The applicant should be 18 years or above in age.
The applicant should have registered their name in the local anganwadi centre.
The applicant should be a recipient of Financial Assistance from the Directorate of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Financial Assistance ID Card.
Disability Certificate.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
