Post Harvest Marketing Scheme
Meghalaya
Co-Operative SocietiesFarmerFIGFPOHorticultureInfrastructureMarketingPost HarvestSHG Farmers
Details
The “Post Harvest Marketing Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya for the creation of post harvest marketing infrastructure. Under the scheme, assistance is provided for evacuation facilities like pick-up trucks/ mini trucks/Tata mobile to the Farmers Groups/ Farmers Clubs/ SHG farmers Co-Operative Societies/ FIG/ FPOs, etc. for transportation of farm produce to the market.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Creation of infrastructural facilities for post harvest marketing, Grading Units etc.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If Any):
Sl. No. Entitlement Owantum of Assistance
1 Evacuation facilities like pick-up trucks/ mini trucks/ Tata mobile to the Farmers Groups/ Farmers Clubs/ SHG farmers Co-Operative Societies/ FIG/ FPOs etc. for transportation of farm produce to the market. ₹2,000,00/- per Group or SHG. (50% Subsidy)
2 Village level Farmers training on Post Harvest Management. ₹189/ day/farmer. (Daily allowance)
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
2. The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture.
3. The applicant should possess owned or leased land of at least 0.2 hectares or more.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact:
1. Sectoral Officer, Department of Horticulture
2. District Horticulture Officer
3. Horticulture Development Officer.
Documents Required
1. Passport-size photograph
2. Identity Proof
3. Bank passbook/account details
4. Documents proof of possessing own or leased land
5. Any other document as required
