Group Insurance for Differently Abled Person Government Employees
Puducherry
BankingDisabilityEmployeeGovernmentInsurance
Details
The scheme “Group Insurance for Differently Abled Person Government Employees" was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, in the case of death due to accident while in service the sum insured will be given to the family of the deceased employee.

Benefits
In case of death due to accident while in service the sum insured as follows will be given to the family of the deceased employee:
Group A: ₹ 1,20,000/-.
Group B: ₹ 60,000/-.
Group C: ₹ 30,000/-.
Group D: ₹ 15,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
The applicant should be a government servant.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, Issued by the Competent Authority.
Recent Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Disability Certificate / Medical Certificate.
Proof of being a Government Servant.
