Supply of Prosthetic Appliances to Differently Abled Persons
Puducherry
ApplianceDisabilityProstheticPwD
Details
The scheme “Supply of Prosthetic Appliances to Differently Abled Persons” was launched by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry. In this scheme, prosthetic appliances are supplied to differently-abled persons free of cost to minimize the mobility challenges experienced by them.

Benefits
Free Supply of Prosthetic Appliances Like Calipers, Crutches, Wheelchairs, Tricycles, Hearing Aids, Spectacles / Low Vision Aids Etc.
NOTE: The Appliances Are Provided Upon the Advice of the Specialist / Medical Officers Concerned Who Are Attached to the Government General Hospital of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/-.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, Issued by the Competent Authority.
Recent Passport-size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Disability Certificate.
Caste Certificate.
Financial Assistance Identity Card.
