Regional Centre for Training and Production of Mushroom
Meghalaya
AgricultureFarmerFinancial AssistanceMushroom ProductionTraining
Details
The scheme “Regional Centre for Training and Production of Mushroom” was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to train farmers in the method of mushroom cultivation and to supply quality spawn and pasteurised compost to farmers.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Supply of spawns at 50% subsidy and compost at 50% subsidy.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Sl. No. Entitlement Owantum of Assistance
1 Sale of Button, Oyster spawns, and compost to Mushroom growers at Mushroom Development Centre. 50% subsidy sale to the growers.
2 Construction of compost shed under Assistant Director of Horticulture, Mushroom Development Centre, Upper Shillong. 50% assistance
3 Financial assistance to Mushroom growers @ ₹22,000/- per unit under District Horticulture Officer, West Garo Hills. 50% assistance
Eligibility
The applicant/farmer should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 0.2 (hectares) or more.
Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the required documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a Community Development Block/Horticulture Circle/District Horticulture Officer.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
Bonafide and progressive farmers on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact:
1. District Horticulture Officer
2. Assistant Director of Horticulture (Mushroom) Upper Shillong
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity Proof
Bank passbook/account details
Documents proof of possessing own or leased land
Any other document as required
