Bhausaheb Fundkar Falbag Lagvad Scheme
Maharashtra
Direct Benefit TransferFarmerGeneralHorticulturePlantation
Details
The pattern of assistance under this scheme of total amount payable in three years.
 The subsidy amount will be directly credited to the Aadhaar link Bank Account every year. 
The beneficiary has to maintain the percentage survival of fruit plant shall be minimum 80% for first year and  90%  for the second year.
State Sponsored Bhausaheb Fundkar Falbag Lagvad Scheme was launched by Agriculture Department of Maharashtra from Kharif Season of the year 2018-19.
This scheme include the 16 perennial fruit crops like Mango, Cashew, Guava, Sapota, Custered Apple, Pomegranate, Paper Lemon, Coconut, Tamarind, Fig, Amla, Kokum, Jackfruit, Jamun, Orange, Mosambi. Farmer from Konkan division can avail benefit of 0.10 Hector to 10.00 Hector And rest Of Maharashtra 0.20 Ha. to 6.00 Ha. planting under the scheme. 

Benefits
Subsidy through DBT is given to farmer for plantation of 16 perennial fruit crops like Mango, Cashew, Guava, Sapota, Custered Apple, Pomegranate, Paper Lemon, Coconut, Tamarind, Fig, Amla, Kokum, Jackfruit, Jamun, Orange, Mosambi, for below mentioned activities :

1.  Pit Diggsing
2.  Planting grafts/seedling
3.  Application of chemical and organic fertilizers.
4.  Crop Protection
5.  Gap filling
Eligibility
The beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State 
Farmer should have Aadhaar Card.
Farmer should have 7/12 certificate and 8 –A certificate.
Application Process
Online
Application link:  https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/

Application Process:
1. Go to the Aaple Sarkar DBT Portal at https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/.
2. In that go to Farmer Scheme
3. Click on the “New Applicant Registration” button.
4. Enter your basic personal information, including your name, Aadhaar number, mobile number, and email address.
5. Create a username and password.
6. After completion of registration, login to your account and complete the form by entering Personal details,Address details and Land information details to complete profile 100%.
7. After completing profile, apply for the implements, details of implement and its specifications etc and pay the fees to complete application form.
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card
 2. 7/12 Certificate
 3. 8-A Certificate
 4. Caste Certificate for SC,ST beneficiaries
 5. Self Declaration
 6. Pre Sanction Letter
 7. Invoice of Implement
