“Training in Coir” Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme
Puducherry
CoirEmploymentPoorRuralSkillTraining
Details
The scheme “Training in Coir” Component of the "Development of Coir" Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry aims to promote and develop Coir and Coir-based industries in the region. Additionally, it focuses on providing a 6-month training to the rural poor in producing coir products with the objective of generating employment.

Benefits
Stipend of ₹1,500 per month per trainee during the 6-month training period.
An honorarium of ₹300 per month per trainee for the trainer, with a maximum of ₹3,000 per month.
Compensation for wastage of raw materials: ₹200 per month per trainee, with a maximum of ₹2,000 per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry Union Territory or a continuous resident for the past three years.
The applicant should be between 18 to 35 years of age.
The applicant should be literate.
The applicant should not have already been trained through this scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager (Cottage Industries) of the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Residential Certificate (for verifying native or continuous residency).
Age Proof.
Educational Certificates (if applicable).
Declaration of not already have attended this training.
