Financial Assistance for the Purchase of Lifejackets and Lifebuoys for Fishermen
Goa
Financial AssistanceFishFisheriesFishermen
Details
“Financial Assistance for the Purchase of Lifejackets and Lifebuoys for Fishermen” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, financial assistance amounting to ₹50% is provided by the Government to eligible fishermen for the Purchase of Lifejackets and Lifebuoys. The applications are accepted only in offline mode.

Benefits
The support is extended up to ₹1,000/- per lifejacket and ₹1,500/- per lifebuoy.
For Canoe Fitted With OBM: 05 Life Jackets and 01 Lifebuoy.
For Mechanised Trawlers Engaged in Trawling Operations: 08 Life Jackets and 02 Lifebuoys.
For Mechanised Trawlers Engaged in Purse Seining Operation: 25 Life Jackets and 04 Lifebuoys.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a traditional fisherman by birth or profession.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa.
The applicant should possess one of the following: a Canoe Fitted With OBM; Mechanised Trawlers Engaged in Trawling or Purse Seining Operations.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Updated Fishing License Certificate/Fishing Net License Receipts
Vessel Registration Certificate
Aadhaar Card
Mandate Form
