'Organizing/ Participation in Exhibitions /Trade Fairs /Expo /Seminars /Investors Meets, etc' under 'Marketing And Publicity'
Puducherry
CampaignExhibitionHandicraftHonorariumInvestmentMarketing
Details
The scheme 'Organizing/ Participation in Exhibitions /Trade Fairs /Expo /Seminars /Investors Meets, etc' under 'Marketing And Publicity'  was launched by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, Promotion Campaigns, Investors Meets, Seminars etc., are arranged both within India and abroad, to attract industries to invest in Puducherry. This will help them in increasing the marketability of these products.

Benefits
Promotion Campaigns, Exhibitions, Trade Fairs, Investors Meets, Seminars etc., are arranged in important towns/cities of India and abroad, for the market promotion (display cum sale) for (MSME) products (industrial products, handicraft products, cottage industries products, etc).
The participating artisans/unit industrialists are paid traveling expenses restricted to second-class railway fare and Daily Allowance (DA) at the rate of ₹400/- per day per person.
Payment of honorarium and winter clothing for the officials of this department on duty in India International Trade Fair, New Delhi and other Fair/ Exhibitions held in other major cities.
(a) Honorarium at the rate of ₹400/- per day in addition to the normal DA.
(b) Winter clothing allowance not exceeding ₹3,500/- during such trade fair.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artisan/unit industrialist from Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Proof of Registration as an Artisan/Unit Industrialist from Puducherry.
Any Other Document as Required by the District Industries Centre.
