"Grant to Silk Societies/Agency" Component of the "Development of Silk" Scheme
Puducherry
ArtisanBusinessGrantSilkSociety
Details
The "Grant to Silk Societies/Agency" Component of the "Development of Silk" Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to encourage the silk weaving artisans to form registered societies/agencies to develop a cluster approach among the artisans which is effective and advisable at present for the successful development of their business.

Benefits
Grant of ₹2,00,000 per annum for 5 years, allocated for Administrative and Marketing expenses.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Society/Agency.
The Society/Agency should be registered under either the Co-operative Society Act or the Society Act.
The members of the Society/Agency should be silk-weaving artisans.
The Society/Agency should exclusively deal with silk products produced by artisans in Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Proof of Society/Agency Registration.
Membership Details of Silk Weaving Artisans.
Document Confirming Exclusive Dealing With Silk Products.
Any Other Document as Required by the District Industries Centre.
