The Andaman & Nicobar Islands Old Age Assistance Scheme
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Financial AssistanceOld AgePensionSenior Citizen
Details
The scheme “The Andaman & Nicobar Islands Old Age Assistance Scheme” is implemented by the Directorate of Social Welfare, Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands to provide financial assistance to senior citizens (Above 60 years of age) in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The aim of the scheme is to provide social security by way of financial assistance to destitute, senior citizens who are without any means of subsistence and having no one to give financial support to them for their livelihood. As per the scheme, only those who are permanent residents of A&N Islands or having resided in this territory for not less than 10 years immediately preceding the date of applications are eligible for receiving financial assistance.

Benefits
The amount of assistance for persons in the age group 60-79 years shall be ₹2,500/- per month.
The amount of assistance for persons aged 80 years & above shall be ₹3,000/-.
Note 01: The scheme also included the beneficiaries of the Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS).
Note 02: Payment of allowance shall be made through Bank Account on a monthly basis.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands or have resided in the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands for more than 10 years at the time of making the application.
The age of the applicant should be 60 years or above.
The household income of the applicant does not exceed ₹4000/- per month.
The applicant should not be receiving any other financial assistance, pension, or grant from the government or any other source.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The application form shall be available free of cost at the Directorate of Social Welfare, Port Blair and the sub-divisional offices of Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs). Also, the application form can be downloaded from the official website.
Step 02: The completely filled application form along with all the relevant documents shall be submitted in the office of the concerned Child Development Project Officer.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Proof of age
Local certificate/domicile certificate 
Category/community certificate, if applicable
Bank account details/Copy of passbook
Proof of income issued by the competent authority
Any other document as required
