Dr. D.S. Kothari Post Doctoral Fellowships In Sciences
Ministry of Education
FellowshipScience
Details
Dr. D.S. Kothari Post Doctoral Fellowships in Sciences was introduced by the University Grants Commission, Dept. of Higher Education. In addition to the existing RA/PDF positions provided by various funding agencies, a need was felt for a PDF scheme running in a flexible mode, with fast track, online handling, and decision-making. The initiative would offer ₹ 10,00,000 in financial assistance to 132 selected candidates. 

The tenure is 2 years. The scheme is open for full-time research work, predominantly to young researchers preferably below 35 years of age who have been awarded their Ph.D. Degree under science faculty. The Reservation Policy of the Government of India with regard to SC/ST/OBC/PH is followed. The upper age limit for applicants is 35 years, with a relaxation in age for SC/ST/OBC/Women candidates applicable as per Government of India Norms.

Benefits
Financial Assistance:
The tenure of the award is three years with no provision for further extension. The financial assistance available under the scheme is as follows:
Fellowship 
@ Rs. 43,800/- pm for I year
@ Rs.45,000/- pm for II year
@ Rs. 46,500/- pm for III year
Contingency 
@Rs.1,00,000/-p.a. 

HRA: 
i) Suitable hostel accommodation may be provided to the candidates in the institutions. In such cases, the fellow is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Director/Principal. HRA is not permissible for those candidates who are staying in Hostel accommodation.

ii) In case of non-availability of hostel accommodation, the fellow may be provided with single accommodation by the host institution. In such cases, the rent paid by the fellow on an actual basis may be reimbursed subject to the ceiling of HRA as per Govt. of India norms.

iii) If the fellow makes her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Govt. of India.

Medical: 
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the Post-Doctoral Fellow may avail of the medical facilities available in the University/Institution/College.

Leave: 
i) Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to public holidays may be taken by the Post-Doctoral Fellow with the approval of the Head of the Department. However, they are not entitled to any other vacations, such as summer, winter, and pooja vacations.

ii) Candidates are eligible for maternity/ paternity to leave at full rates of the fellowship as per Government of India rules once during the tenure of the award. 

iii) The fellow, in special cases, may be allowed by the Commission, academic leave without fellowship and contingency for a period not exceeding one year during the tenure of the award on the recommendation of the Head of the department of the institution concerned to undertake academic/ teaching assignment or foreign travel in connection with academic work. The expenditure on travel cannot be claimed from UGC. The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure.
Eligibility
(i) The candidate must have a doctorate degree in the relevant subject preferably with published research work to their credit. 
(ii) Only Ph.D. awarded unemployed candidates will be eligible for the award of Post Doctoral Fellowship.
(iii)The upper age limit for applicants is 35 years, with relaxation in age for SC/ST/OBC/Women candidates applicable as per Government of India Norms.
Application Process
Online
Application
The selection process is open all year round in `...as and when.... ' mode and not restricted by any specified deadlines as thesis submission and award of Ph. D degree are open-ended processes. There is a rolling advertisement on the UGC website; other institutions and UGC affiliates should be encouraged to replicate it on theirs. There is a designated website (http://ugcdskpdf.unipune.ac.in/) to apply for the fellowships. The entire process is being carried out online. 

Selection
There is a standing (core) peer group that is able to access the applications on the web and grade them electronically. On the basis of the grades received (electronically) from the peer group, the Chair of this group takes the final decision. The selection process has to be completed within 6 weeks of the receipt of the individual application. There could be up to 500 such awards every year, making it to about 1000 at its peak. 

Disbursal
It may be noted that the fellowship amount shall be disbursed through UGC designated Bank into the bank account of the awardee directly. The list of designated branches of UGC identified bank is available on the UGC portal i.e. https://dskpdf.ugc.ac.in/Downloads/UGC_BRANCH_LIST.pdf
Documents Required
[in progress]

All the selected candidates should Submit the Joining Report in the prescribed format along with the Award letter issued to the candidate by UGC to the designated Canara bank branch, duly signed by the Head of the Department of the University and countersigned by the Registrar. After verifying the Joining report of the fellow the Canara Bank branch will release the fellowship for the next three months. 
At the end of every three months, the fellow has to submit Continuation Certificate to the designated Canara Bank branch in order to become eligible to draw fellowship for the next three months. 
The Contingency grant is also deposited in the fellow's account. After the end of one year, the concerned fellows have to submit a contingency utilization certificate to the designated Canara Bank branch. Thereafter the contingency amount for the next year will be released. 
The concerned fellow has to submit the HRA certificate to the designated Canara Bank branch to avail of the House Rent Allowance. The HRA certificate has to be submitted after every three months.
