Chief Minister’s Girl Child Protection Scheme-I
Tamil Nadu
ChildEducationFamilyFinancial AssistanceGirlPoor
Details
The 'Chief Minister’s Girl Child Protection Scheme-I' was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to girl children of poor families as well as to promote girl child education, small family norms, increase the child sex ratio, discourage the preference for male child & eradicate female infanticide.

Benefits
A fixed deposit (FD) of ₹50,000/- in the name of the girl child (A copy of the FD receipt is given to the family).
Renewal of FD after five years.
An annual incentive of ₹1,800/- from the 6th year of the FD.
The amount deposited along with accrued interest is given to the girl child when she attains 18 years of age.
NOTE: The matured amount will be given to the girl child only if she appears for the 10th standard public exam.
Eligibility
The assistance is provided only for one girl child of the family.
The annual income of the parents of the girl child should not exceed ₹72,000/-.
One of the parents must have undergone sterilization before turning 40 years old.
The family should have only one female child and no male child. In the future, no male child should be adopted.
The parents/grandparents should be a native of Tamil Nadu by birth or continuous residence of not less than ten years at the time of applying to this scheme.
The scheme is also applicable to the girl children of Sri Lankan Tamil Refugees in the Refugee Camps in Tamil Nadu.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: The Parents/grandparents should be a domicile of Tamil Nadu for 10 years at the time of applying to this scheme).
Deadline for Application:
The application should be submitted before the child completes 3 years of age.
Documents Required
Birth Certificate (issued by Corporation/Taluk Office/ Municipality Office).
Parent's age proof (Birth Certificate/School Certificate/Government Doctor's Certificate).
Sterilisation Certificate (issued by Government/Private Hospital).
Income Certificate (issued by Taluk Office).
No Male Child Certificate (issued by Extension Officer (SW), Rural Welfare Officer, or Supervisor/ Taluk Office (Chennai District only)).
Residential Certificate (issued by Tahsildar).
Community Certificate (issued by the Revenue Department).
