Annai Teresa Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme for Orphan Girls-II
Tamil Nadu
GirlGoldMarriageOrphan
Details
The "Annai Teresa Ninaivu Marriage Assistance Scheme for Orphan Girls-I" was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme provides financial assistance to the orphan girls for their marriage. The bride should have completed 18 years of age at the time of marriage.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹25,000/-.
One sovereign (8gm) 22-carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam. 
Mode of Disbursal: Through Electronic Clearing Service.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a girl. 
The applicant should be an orphan. 
The bride should be 18 years or above at the time of marriage. 
The applicant should have a degree passed from regular colleges, distance education/government-recognized open university.
The applicant should have a diploma passed from the Institution recognized by the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Tamil Nadu.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Application Deadline
40 days before the marriage date (In exceptional circumstances, the application can be submitted one day before the marriage date).
Documents Required
1. Death Certificate of Father & Mother or Orphan Certificate (Issued by a Member of Parliament (MP)/ Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA)).
2. Income Certificate from Tahsildar.
3. Marriage Invitation.
4. Age Proof of the Bride.
5. Bride’s Photograph.
6. Bills towards the Purchase of Marriage Articles for ₹1,000/-.
7. Any other document as required by the Department.
