Petrol Subsidy To Persons With Disability
Chandigarh
Disable PersonPerson With DisabilityPetrol SubsidyPhysically HandicappedScheme Handicapped Person
Details
 The Petrol Subsidy To Persons With Disability scheme under the Department Social Welfare, Women & Child Development of Chandigarh will handicapped persons using motorized vehicles entitled to a  50% subsidy on actual expenditure on the purchase of petrol/diesel subject to fulfillment of other conditions laid down under the scheme. The physically handicapped persons having income up to ₹1.50 lacs from all sources are eligible for subsidy. The physically handicapped persons who are already in receipt of the conveyance allowance either from any voluntary or State source shall not be eligible for a grant of subsidy on the purchase of petrol/diesel. Petrol/Diesel Subsidy @50% of actual expenditure on purchase of PetrolDieselp to a maximum of 20 Ltrs. Per month.

Benefits
Petrol Subsidy Scheme to Persons with Disability provides benefits in the form of subsidy on Petrol and Diesel
Under this scheme 50% subsidy on actual expenditure on purchase of petrol/ diesel provided
Vehicle of 2 Horse Power and Below – 15 litters per month
Vehicle of more than 2Horse Power – More than 15 litters per month
Due to this scheme, some financial burden will be reduced from disabling person and family
Eligibility
Persons with Disability who are owners of motorized vehicles. 
Persons with Disability having an income up to Rs.1.50 lacs / p.a. from all sources are eligible for subsidy. 
Those Persons with Disability who are already in receipt of the conveyance allowance either from any voluntary or Govt. source shall not be eligible for a grant of subsidy on the purchase of petrol/ diesel. 
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Applicant visit the ServicesPlus website 
Step 2: Look for a"Register" on the homepage. Click on it to proceed to the registration page.
Step 3: Fill out the registration form with your
Name 
Email id
Password
Mobile number
Select State
Enter Captcha
Step 4:  Once you've filled out all the required information and completed any additional steps, review your details to ensure accuracy, and then submit your registration.
Step 5: After successful registration, you may receive a confirmation message on the website or via email, confirming that your registration was successful.
Login: Once registered, you can log in to your account using the username and password you created during the registration process.
Documents Required
Document Required: (Self Attested Photocopy)

Two passport size photographs.
Residence Proof for the last three years (Voter Identity Card, Ration Card, Electricity Bill)
Copy of Disability Certificate/Identity Card with 40% or above Disability.
Copy of Registration Certificate of the vehicle which should be in the name of the applicant.
Copy of Driving License of the applicant.
Income Certificate.
