Mukhyamantri Sports Development Scheme - Unemployed Young Professional Sportsperson
Tripura
EmploymentOpportunityRemunerationSportsSportspersonUnemployed
Details
Launched on 9th February 2024, the scheme "Mukhyamantri Sports Development Scheme - Unemployed Young Professional Sportsperson" was launched by the Directorate of Youth Affairs & Sports, Government of Tripura. The scheme aims to generate employment opportunities for young experienced professional sportspersons (Junior Coach) to give a monthly fixed remuneration of ₹20,000/-. 
Duration: The contract is tenable for a maximum period of 12 months, it may be extended or curtailed

Benefits
Fixed Remuneration of ₹20,000/- per month. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Tripura.
The applicant should be a young sportsperson.
The applicant should be an experienced professional.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 40 years (a relaxation of 5 years in the upper age limit for ST/SC candidates).
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director of Youth Affairs & Sports, Government of Tripura, Shiksha Bhavan, 4th Floor, Office Lane, Agartala -799 001.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
*The applications sent by email/post/courier service etc are not accepted.
Documents Required
Self-attested Passport-size photo.
Permanent Resident Certificate of Tripura (PRTC).
Educational Certification.
Sports Certificate.
Fitness certificate (Issued by Agartala Government Medical College Tripura).
Good record in service career and integrity certificate (Issued by the competent authority).
Madhyamik Passed Certificate (6 weeks Course in Coaching in Sports) or 
Course Certificate (Issued by Netaji Subhash National Institute of Sports (NSNIS) or any other recognized Indian/ Foreign University / Institution
Participation certificate of minimum State Level Competition (Issued by Sports Authority of India/ Schools Games Federation of India/Indian Olympic Association)
Any other document if required. 
