Shree Nanaji Deshmukh Awas Yojana (GBOCWWB)
Gujarat
AwasBuilding WorkerConstruction WorkerFinancial AssistanceHouseLabour
Details
The “Shree Nanaji Deshmukh Awas Yojana” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development & Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. In urban areas, where EWS/LIG houses have been allotted by the Local Self-Government Organization/Urban Development Authority and Gujarat Housing Board under the Chief Minister/Prime Minister Awas Yojana, the benefit of this scheme is given once per family to the construction worker registered in the board.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹1,60,000/- is provided to registered construction workers.
Eligibility
The construction workers who are registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
A house is allotted jointly to a registered construction worker husband or wife and either of the husband or wife is a registered construction worker will be eligible for the benefit of this scheme.
No land/property or building should be in the name of the registered construction worker husband or wife or any of their family members.
The benefit of this scheme is given once per family to the registered construction worker.
Note 01: The construction worker should be registered in this scheme for at least 2 years.
Note 02: Application for this scheme has to be made after one year of house allotment.
Application Process
Online
Application Process for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms & conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
Process to track Application Status:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
Application Process for Scheme Benefit:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter E-Nirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ & submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules & Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent to the registered email ID.
Post Application Process:
Step 01: After the application form is submitted by the construction worker, the application will be verified and approved by the District Project Manager.
Step 02: After that, the application will be verified and approved by the district inspector and sent to the head office.
Step 03: The State Project Manager of the Head Office will verify the application and send it to the Government Labour Officer (GLO).
Step 04: After that, the application will be verified and approved by the Government Labour Officer of the Head Office and then by the Member Secretary.
Step 05: After approval of the application through DD (Demand Draft) assisted by the Accounts Officer. It will be sent to the Authority.
Documents Required
Documents required for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
1. Photograph of the worker
2. Aadhaar Card
3. Ration Card
4. Caste Category certificate, if applicable
5. Proof of age (Birth certificate/Driving Licence/PAN Card/Voter ID Card)
6. Self-declaration certificate 
7. Employer Certificate
8. Bank Passbook/cancelled Cheque
9. Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefit:
1. e-Nirman Card of the worker
2. Passport-size photograph
3. Beneficiary Identity Card
4. Allotment letter of house
5. Letter regarding payment of house instalment
6. Aadhaar Card, Election Card and Residence Proof
7. Copy of rent agreement/rent receipt/letter from landlord
8. Copy of the tax bill of the local municipality
9. Affidavit
10. Any other documents as required
