Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme-II
Tamil Nadu
Backward ClassFinancial AssistanceInter-CasteMarriage
Details
The 'Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Ninaivu Inter-caste Marriage Assistance Scheme' was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme's objective is to abolish caste and community discrimination by encouraging inter-caste marriage by giving financial assistance to newly married couples of whom one spouse is from other community (Forward Community) and the other from the Backward Class / Most Backward Class Community.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹50,000 given to the newly married couple. 
1 Sovereign (8 gm) 22-carat gold coin for making Thirumangalyam. 

Mode of Disbursal:
₹30,000 through Electronic Clearing Service and ₹20,000 in the form of National Savings Certificate.
Eligibility
The couple should belong to a backward class / most backward class community.
The bride should have passed the 10th standard. 
The bride should have studied up to Vth standard in the case of the scheduled tribe.
The age of the bride should be above 18 years at the time of marriage.
The bride should have a degree passed from regular colleges, distance education/government-recognized open university.
The applicant should have a diploma holder passed from the Institution recognized by the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Tamil Nadu.
Application Process
Online - Via CSCs
Step 1: The applicant should gather copies of the necessary documents needed to apply for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: The applicant should visit the nearest Common Service Center (CSC) and complete the Biometric Verification Process.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload copies of all the mandatory documents.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the CSC. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Application Deadline:
The application should be submitted before the child completes 3 years of age.
Documents Required
Marriage Invitation or Marriage Registration Certificate.
Community Certificates of the bride.
Community Certificates of the bridegroom.
Age Certificate of the bride.
Certificates of Graduates / Diploma.
