Mukhyamantri Bhagyalaxmi Bond Scheme (GBOCWWB)
Gujarat
BhagyalakshmiBirthBondBuilding WorkerConstruction WorkerGirl Child
Details
The “Mukhyamantri Bhagyalaxmi Bond Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development & Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. The scheme has been implemented with the objective of "Beti Bachao Beti Padhao" to prevent female foeticide and to meet the education and marriage expenses of the daughter of a construction worker. Under the scheme, a bond is provided in the name of the first girl child, of age up to 1 year of age, of the registered Building and Other Construction Workers.

Benefits
Under the scheme, a bond of ₹25,000/- or of the amount as resolved from time to time, with maturity at 18 year of the age of the girl child, upto one girl is given to the registered Building and other Construction workers.
The amount can be withdrawn by the daughter after completing 18 years of age.
Eligibility
The construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
The construction workers are eligible to avail the benefits of the scheme in the event of the birth of a girl child.
The benefit of the scheme is given upto one girl child.
The application form should be made within 12 months from birth.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Application Process for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms & conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
Process to track Application Status:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’
Application Process for Scheme Benefit:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter your E-Nirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ & submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the rules carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules & Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the Application Number will be sent to the registered email ID.
Documents Required
Documents required for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Photograph of the worker
Aadhaar Card
Ration Card
Caste Category certificate, if applicable
Proof of age (Birth certificate/Driving Licence/PAN Card/Voter ID Card)
Self-declaration certificate 
Employer Certificate
Bank Passbook
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefit:
Identity card of construction worker
Passport size photograph
Birth certificate
Aadhaar card of the beneficiary
Bank form for obtaining the bond
Bank Passbook of the beneficiary
Ration Card/Voter ID Card/PAN Card
Bonafide Certificate
Any other documents as required
