Mukhyamantri Vriddhjan Samman Pension Yojana
Rajasthan
FinancialOld AgePensionSenior Citizens
Details
In 2 October 2021, The "Mukhyamantri Vriddhjan Samman Pension Yojana" was started by the Labore department of Rajasthan. It will provide the benefits to old age people. By offering financial assistance, the program not only eases the burden of financial worries but also honors the lifelong contributions of seniors to the state's social fabric. It recognizes their wisdom, experience, and resilience, affirming their rightful place in society and ensuring they can live out their golden years with dignity and respect.

Benefits
Pension amount : ₹1,000/- per month
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan and living in Rajasthan,
The female applicant should be 55 years or older.
 The male applicant should be aged 58 years or older
The total annual income of the wife/husband from all sources should be less than ₹48,000/-
People belonging to BPL/Antyodaya/Aastha Card holding families/Sahariya/Kathauri, Khairwa castes have been exempted from the income-related condition.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step-3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.
  Citizen
Step-4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.
Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,
Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 
Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 
Enter the password.
A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
Enter Mobile number, click on registration.
 Apply 
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step-3: Click on “IFMS-RAJSSP” option. 
Step-4: In "IFMS-RAJSSP", click on "Application Entry Request".
Step-5: Enter the "Bhamashah Family ID" and search.  
Step-6: Select the person name and scheme name. 
Step-7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on get details. 
Step-8: Provide the required details.
            - Pensioner Details.
            - Bank Details.
            - Disability Details.
            - Verification Details.
            - Upload Documents.
Step-9: Submit.

Fees for Chief Minister Old Age Samman Pension Scheme is Rs. 33/-. Payment of fees can be done through E-Mitra.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card Copy
Jan Aadhar/Bhamashah Card Copy
Bank passbook front page copy (Account holder name, Account No, IFSC code).
Passport size photo.
Income Certificate.
Disability Certificate.
