Housing Subsidy Scheme (GBOCWWB)
Gujarat
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerFinancial AssistanceHouseLabourLoan
Details
The “Housing Subsidy Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development & Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. The main objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board to build their own houses.
            In order to provide financial relief to the construction workers by giving subsidies for the houses purchased by them and to provide social stability to the construction workers, the  "Housing Subsidy" schemewasn started in the year 2021-22. It is planned to provide financial relief and social stability to construction workers through providing subsidies.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the assistance of ₹1,50,000/- will be provided to registered construction workers for a duration of 5 years, with ₹30,000/- disbursed annually subject to the terms of assistance.
The construction workers who have taken a loan up to a maximum of ₹15 lakhs to buy their house will be provided ₹30,000/- per year for the five years as per plan.
Eligibility
The construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
At the time of applying for the benefits of this scheme, it will be mandatory to have at least the last 2 years of registration with the construction worker's board.
To avail the benefit of this scheme the construction worker should have documented the building after the date of resolution of the scheme (29/06/2020). The application has to be made within one year from the date of the document mentioned in the house purchase document.
The loan taken for a house purchased by a registered construction worker should not exceed ₹15 lakhs and the loan tenure should be 10 years or more.
The registered construction worker benefiting from this scheme should not own any house or property in the joint name of the worker or his wife or joint, which guarantee has to be given by the worker in an affidavit as per the prescribed format herein.
The registered construction worker has to submit the bank loan interest certificate/bank loan statement after the completion of the financial year to avail the assistance under the Housing Subsidy Scheme.
The registered construction worker receiving benefits under this scheme has to submit a written proposal every year at the district office of the concerned board to get the remaining four years of assistance after receiving the assistance for the first time along with a copy of the in-principle approval letter and the annual statement of interest.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Application Process for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms & conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
Process to track Application Status:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
Application Process for Scheme Benefit:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter your E-Nirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ & submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules & Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent to the registered email ID.
Documents Required
Documents required for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Photograph of the worker
Aadhaar Card
Ration Card
Caste Category certificate, if applicable
Proof of age (Birth certificate/Driving Licence/PAN Card/Voter ID Card)
Self-declaration certificate 
Employer Certificate
Bank Passbook/cancelled Cheque
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefit:
e-Nirman Card of the worker
Copy of Identity Card (Red Book) regarding enrollment in the Board
Copy of Aadhaar Card
Copy of building document
Proof of taking a loan (loan sanction letter)
Annual Loan Statement/Annual Interest Certificate
Copy of Housing Loan Passbook/ Statement
Any other documents as required
