Scheme of Extending Family Maintenance Grant to the Families of the Deceased Famous Artists
Tamil Nadu
ArtistCultureDeathFamilyFinancial Assistance
Details
"Scheme of Extending Family Maintenance Grant to the Families of the Deceased Famous Artists" was launched by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The objective of the scheme is to provide a one-time maintenance grant of ₹25,000/- to the families of deceased famous artists of the art disciplines of music, drama, dance, film, and folk arts.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹25,000/-. 
Eligibility
The deceased should have been a famous artist in the art disciplines of music/ drama/ dance/ film/ folk arts.
The benefit of the scheme will be given only on the death of the famous artist.
The applicant should be the legal heir of the deceased.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the Manram and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram, Ponni, 31, P.S. Kumarasamy Raja Salai, Chennai - 600 028. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport-size Photo of Deceased Artist.
Applicant Passport-size Photo. 
Deceased Artist's Original Death Certificate. 
Legal Heir Certificate.
Income Certificate (from Thasildar).
Genuine Artist Certificate (from Two Senior Artists or Cultural Organizations).
Property Certificate (if Owned House or Land).
