NSAP - Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme
Ministry Of Rural Development
BPLPensionSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme "Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS)" is one of the five sub-schemes of the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). Under IGNOAPS, citizens living Below Poverty Line and 60 years or above in age are eligible to apply. A monthly pension of ₹ 200 up to 79 years and ₹ 500 thereafter.
The Government of India, on 15th August 1995, introduced the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) as a fully funded Centrally Sponsored Scheme targeting the destitute, defined as any person who has little or no regular means of subsistence from his / her own source of income or through financial support from family members or other sources, to be identified by the States and UTs, with the objective of providing a basic level of financial aid. NSAP is being administered by the Ministry of Rural Development. This program is being implemented in rural areas as well as urban areas. 
NSAP represents a significant step towards the fulfillment of the Directive Principles of State Policy enshrined in the Constitution of India which enjoin upon the State to undertake within its means a number of welfare measures. These are intended to secure for the citizen's adequate means of livelihood, raise the standard of living, improve public health, provide free and compulsory education for children, etc. 
The NSAP at present includes five sub-schemes as its components - 
a) Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS)
b) Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme (IGNWPS)
c) Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme (IGNDPS)
d) National Family Benefit Scheme (NFBS)
e) Annapurna Scheme
Objectives of NSAP - 
1.  Provides social assistance benefits to poor households in the case of death, maternity, or old age of the breadwinner.
2.  Ensure minimum national standards, in addition to the benefits, the States are currently providing or might provide in the future.
3.  Ensure uniform social protection to the beneficiaries across the country without interruption.
Expansion to cover all eligible BPL persons - 
In 2007, the scheme was expanded to cover all eligible persons Below Poverty Line (BPL).

Benefits
A monthly pension of ₹ 200 up to 79 years and ₹ 500 thereafter.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be living Below Poverty Line.
The applicant should be at least 60 years of age.
Application Process
Online
One can download UMANG App or visit website https://web.umang.gov.in/web_new/home 
The citizen can login using mobile number and OTP.
Once logged In, citizen can search for NSAP.
Click on “Apply Online”
Fill the basic details, choose the mode of payment of pension, upload photo and click on “Submit”.
Apply Now
Documents Required
Duly filled and self-attested Application Form (proforma given the annexures of the scheme guidelines).
Domicile Certificate                                                                                                  
Residential Proof (Voter card/ Electricity Bill/Aadhar Card)                                                    
Age Proof (Birth Certificate issued by the School last attended or Municipal authority or SHO or through Medical Board)                                             
Aadhar Number                                                                                            
Bank Passbook                                                                                                                
Ration Card                                                                                                                        
Affidavit duly attested by Judicial Magistrate/Executive Magistrate that she/he is not in receipt of any pension/ financial assistance from any other source
