"Green and Eco-Friendly Measures" under “Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - State Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises”
Puducherry
AwardBusinessEntrepreneurEnvironmentMSME
Details
"Green and Eco-Friendly Measures" under “Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - State Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises” is a scheme by the Industries and Commerce Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The award is conferred upon the industries that are green and eco-friendly as per the standards of the Department of Science, Technology and Environment (DSTE), Puducherry. The awardee is given a cash award of ₹2,00,000/- and a citation. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department.

Benefits
Cash Award of ₹2,00,000/- and a Citation.
Eligibility
The industry should be green and eco-friendly as per the DSTE standards.
The unit should provide at least 60% of employment to the people of UT of Puducherry of the total employment strength of the industrial units.
Application Process
Offline
The Director of Industries will invite the application for award by wide publicity.
Step 1: The industrial unit should apply for the award in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority either in person or by post.
Post-Application Process
Step 1: The applications shall be scrutinised by the Directorate of Industries and Commerce on a merit basis for the grant of state awards will be placed before the award Committee.
Step 2: The Committee for the awards will go into the merits of each case for granting the award.
Step 3: The list of selected enterprises shall be notified and informed by the Director of Industries to the enterprises to receive the awards.
Documents Required
Certification from the Department of Science, Technology and Environment (DSTE), Puducherry for Zero/Minimum Effluent Discharge.
Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2 (UAM/ PMT) Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
Any other document, as required by the Award Committee.
