One Time Cash Incentive towards Learning Driving (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
DrivingEx-ServicemanRoadTransportVehicle
Details
"One Time Cash Incentive towards Learning Driving" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, up to ₹4,000/- is provided to the unemployed Ex-servicemen (ESM) to learn to drive. The driving course should be taken from a Government-recognized School/Institution, with prior permission from the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
A one-time cash incentive of ₹4,000/- is provided to take a course on driving.
The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-Serviceman.
The Ex-Serviceman should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should be unemployed.
The applicant should have obtained prior permission from the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry, to take up the course.
The applicant should apply within three years of discharge from service.
The applicant should take the driving course from a Government-recognized School/Institution.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
*The application should be submitted within three months from the date of successful completion of the course.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM.
Discharge Certificate of Ex-Serviceman.
Proof of Successful Completion of the Driving Course.
Declaration by the ESM.
