Thatched House Repair Grant for Re-thatching & Repairs (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
DependentEx-ServicemanHouseRepairWidow
Details
"Thatched House Repair Grant for Re-thatching & Repairs" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, up to ₹40,000/- is provided to the registered ESM / Widows of ESM / Dependents of ESM every three years, for the re-thatching & repair of their house. The applicant should be receiving a Subsistence Allowance and living in a thatched house. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
The actual cost of damage or a maximum of ₹40,000/- is provided for the re-thatching and repair of the house.
The amount, as decided by the Management Committee, is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-serviceman/Widow of an Ex-serviceman/Dependent of an Ex-serviceman.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should be receiving Subsistence Allowance.
The applicant should be living in a thatched house.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM/ Widow of ESM.
Discharge Certificate of Ex-Serviceman.
Declaration by the ESM/ Widow of ESM.
Bill for the Re-thatching and/or Repair of the House.
Any other document, as required by the Department.
