Dr. P. G. Solanki Scheme for Loan/Assistance to Medical Post Graduate Doctors of Scheduled Caste
Gujarat
LoanMedicalPost Graduate DoctorScheduled Caste
Details
The scheme “Dr. P. G. Solanki Scheme for Loan/Assistance to Medical Post Graduate Doctors of Scheduled Caste” was launched by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme was launched in the year 1982. Under the scheme, loans/financial assistance is given to the Scheduled Caste Medical Post Graduate (M.D/M.S) Doctors to start their independent profession/clinic consultation room, etc.

Benefits
Loan/Assistance details under the scheme:
Subsidy/assistance of ₹50,000/-.
Loan up to ₹3,00,000/- at an interest rate of 4%.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Medical Post Graduate (M.D/M.S) Doctor.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
The benefit of this scheme will be given only to natives of Gujarat state.
There is no income limit.
The applicant availing the benefit of this scheme will not be eligible to avail the benefit of any similar scheme of the Government.
Scheduled Caste students with Graduate Medical (MBBS, B.S.A.M., B.A.M.S. and B.D.S. (Dental) degrees) benefited under the loan/assistance for starting an independent profession. If so, such scheduled caste post graduate doctors will not "entitle" any loan/assistance under this scheme.
Note 01: Loan assistance for margin money from the government will have to be used only for the purpose for which it is given. If found to be used for any other purpose, the amount given as loan assistance will be collected with penal interest from the date of repayment and will also be collected as revenue if required.
Note 02: The sanctioned loan will be recovered over a period of four years in equal monthly instalments after the completion of the instalment including interest on the loan taken by the applicant from the bank or other financial institution or after eight years, whichever is earlier.
Note 03: The applicant will be free to repay the outstanding amount earlier than the stipulated time.
Note 04: If the applicant fails to repay the sanctioned loan within the stipulated time, a penal interest at the rate of 2.50% will be charged along with the instalments.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual
Documents Required
Passport Size Photograph
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Caste certificate
Election Identity Card
Proof of Residence (Any one of Electricity Bill/License/Rent Agreement/Electoral Card/Ration Card)
Copy of registration
Certificate of Medical Post Graduate Degree
Proof of age of applicant/School leaving certificate (if any)
Copy of first page of bank passbook/cancelled cheque (in the name of the applicant)
Guarantee letter of property 
Specimen of security bond
Eligibility for loan repayment
Agreement
Affidavit
Property of Guarantor-1 
Property of Guarantor-2
Any other documents as required
Application Attachments
