Immediate Assistance for Severe Injury in Road/Fire Accident (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
AccidentEx-ServicemanFireRoadWidow
Details
"Immediate Assistance for Severe Injury in Road/Fire Accident" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, ₹25,000/- is provided to the registered Ex-servicemen/Widows of Ex-servicemen who have suffered a severe injury in a Road/Fire Accident. The members of the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) are not eligible. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹25,000/-, credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-serviceman/Widow of an Ex-serviceman.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should have suffered a severe injury in a Road/Fire Accident.
The applicant should not be a member of the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS).
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM/ Widow of ESM.
Discharge Certificate of Ex-Serviceman.
Documentary Proof.
Medical Bill.
Declaration by the ESM/ Widow of ESM.
