Subsistence Allowance (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
AllowanceEx-ServicemanFinancial AsisstanceSainikWidow
Details
The scheme "Subsistence Allowance" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the Veterans of the Second World War (WWII), Non-pensioners ESM above 60 years under "Below the Poverty Line (BPL)", and their widows. This scheme applies only to the Ex-servicemen/Widows of Ex-servicemen registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline. 

Benefits
₹10,000 per month for Second World War (WWII) Veterans, irrespective of financial status. 
₹9,000 per month for Non-pensioners ESM above 60 years under "Below Poverty Line (BPL)".
₹9,000 per month for widows of the above two categories.
*The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-Serviceman or the Widow of an Ex-Serviceman.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (Monday - Friday, 02:30 PM to 05:00 PM) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register by the concerned authority, and a unique number is assigned to the applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM.
Recent passport-size photograph.
*A 'Life Certificate' must be submitted by January every year to the respective bank for the continuation of the allowance.
