Financial Assistance Scheme for Purchase of Agricultural Land to Scheduled Caste Farmers
Gujarat
AgricultureFarmerFinancial AssistancePurchase Of LandScheduled Caste
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance Scheme for Purchase of Agricultural Land to Scheduled Caste Farmers” is implemented by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme was launched in the year 1986. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to farmers belonging to the scheduled castes to purchase agricultural land, with a maximum limit of 2 acres, for self-cultivation. This initiative aims to enhance their income, particularly considering the dependence of many scheduled caste individuals on farm labour.

Benefits
Under the scheme, Scheduled caste farmers are provided with financial assistance of ₹1,00,000/- per acre to purchase agricultural land.
Assistance is provided up to ₹2,00,000/- for a maximum of 2 acres to enable the purchase of agricultural land.
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to Scheduled Castes Category.
The applicant should be a native of Gujarat.
The applicant must be an agricultural labourer.
The annual income limit will be ₹6,00,000/- for rural areas and ₹6,00,000/- for urban areas.
Excluding government assistance, only the beneficiary who is able to purchase the land is eligible for the benefit.
Only one member of the family is eligible for the benefit.
Beneficiaries of land acquired with government assistance will be subject to non-sale for 15 years.
Under this scheme, assistance will be available for purchasing agricultural land from government or private individuals.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual  
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Caste Certificate issued by the competent authority
Proof of being a farmer/agricultural worker
Income certificate
Valid copy Revenue (Revenue) Department's permission to sell land 
True copy of revenue account permission for sale of land
Copy of first page of Bank Passbook/Cancelled Cheque (in applicant's name)
Any other documents as required
