Advance for Purchase or Construction of House (GBOCWWB)
Goa
ConstructionFinancial AssistanceHouseLabourWorker
Details
"Advance for Purchase or Construction of House (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Department of Labour and Employment, Goa. Through this scheme, the worker registered with the Board is sanctioned financial assistance of upto ₹50,000/- in advance for the outright purchase/construction of a house. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
₹50,000/- is sanctioned as advance and shall be recovered in equal instalments as may be fixed by the Board.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Worker registered with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The worker should be between 18 to 60 years of age.
The worker should have completed ninety days of service as a registered worker in the year.
The applicant should have had membership in the Fund continuously for five years.
The applicant should have fifteen years of service for superannuation.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Plan and Estimate (Approved).
Encumbrance Certificate of 14 Years.
Location Certificate.
Land Tax Receipt.
Original Document.
Attested Copy of Ration Card (Pages 2, 4) for Maintenance Application.
Ownership of the Building (for Maintenance Only).
Terminal Benefit Declaration.
Attested Copies of Identity Card & Passbook.
Title Clearance Certificate.
Age Certificate of the Building (for Maintenance Only).
Valuation Certificate of the Building (for Maintenance Only).
No Objection Certificate from the Authorities for Construction.
Declaration from the Applicant that Neither He/She/Nor His/Her Spouse or Children Own a House (for New Construction).
*A completion certificate shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Board within six months from the date of withdrawal of advance. 
