Jai Johar (Old Age Pension) Scheme
West Bengal
Financial AssistancePensionScheduled TribeSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
Launched on 1st April 2020, “Jai Johar (Old Age Pension)” is a Social Security Scheme by the Tribal Development Department, Government of West Bengal. The scheme is aimed at the Scheduled Tribe (ST) residents of West Bengal of the age of 60 years and above who do not receive any other pension from any other authority. Over 3,00,000 beneficiaries have been brought under the fold of the scheme. The amount of monthly pension of ₹ 1,000/- is transferred directly to the individual bank account of the beneficiary.

Benefits
A monthly pension of ₹1,000/- is transferred directly to the individual bank account of the beneficiary.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of West Bengal.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category.
The applicant should have attained the age of 60 years or more.
The applicant should not be a beneficiary under any other Social Security pension scheme.
The applicant should not be a recipient of Government pension or pension from any other organization.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the office of Block Development Officer (BDO) / Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) / Kolkata Municipal Corporation.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at:
Office of the BDO in rural areas.
Office of the SDO in Municipalities and Notified Areas
Commissioner Kolkata Municipal Corporation in KMC areas.
Documents Required
Passport Size Photograph
Formal Caste or Tribe Certificate (If unavailable, a Caste/Tribe certificate of any paternal relative is acceptable for the initial assessment. However, the applicant must procure their caste certificate later and submit the same subsequently)
Digital Ration Card
EPIC (Elector's Photo Identity Card)/Voter Card
Self-Attested Residential Certificate/Address Proof
Copy of Bank Passbook
Aadhaar Card
