HIMAYAT- Deen Dayal Upadhyaya-Grameen Kaushalya Yojana
Jammu and Kashmir
EmploymentEntrepreneurSkillTraining
Details
Himayat is a placement-linked skill training programme for unemployed youth in Jammu and Kashmir and is being implemented by the Himayat Mission Management Unit, J&K State Rural Livelihoods Mission (JKSRLM), Govt. of J&K. The Programme is an outcome of the recommendations of the Dr. C. Rangarajan Committee report submitted to the Hon’ble Prime Minister on February 24, 2011 which suggested a scheme of Skill Development for school/college dropouts.

Himayat – a Skill Development Programme for the youth has been under implementation since 2011. The Report suggested increasing the employability of youth by improving their skill sets and providing support for placement and self-employment.

Youth will be provided free skill training for a duration of 3 to 12 months, in a range of skills for which there is good market demand. At the end of the training, the youth are assured of a job and there is one year post-placement tracking to see how they are faring.

Benefits
The Himayat shall be implemented in partnership with Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs) empaneled under; and who qualify as per the guidelines of DDU-GKY, MoRD, and GoI.
The Himayat programme aims to train 1,49,180 youth with placement assurance (at least 70%) of trained youth.
The Programme is 100 percent funded by the Government of India as a special provision under the DDU-GKY programme and no formal cap on the budget and the number of youth to be trained/ placed.
Technical and financial support shall be available for trainees post-training/placement as well.
A liberal costing for training and post-placement allowance (including tracking) has been provided under the programme for the Project Implementation Agencies (PIA).
The Himayat programme shall cover both urban and rural populations irrespective of levels of poverty.
Training shall be both Residential and Non-Residential.
Initial entry-level training will be provided for at least 3 months and upon completion, trainees will be placed in companies.
The training will include computer-oriented skills, soft skills and English communication skills, as well as the technical skills needed for the particular job.
There is provision for a reservation for skilling 40000 young women.
1000 youth will be trained for the placements abroad.
The National Institute of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj (NIRD&PR) in Hyderabad has been designated as the Central Technical Support Agency (CTSA) for the appraisal of project proposals of PIAs.
Initial entry-level training will be provided for at least 3 months and upon completion, trainees will be placed in companies.
If a trainee is not receiving the above entitlements he/she can call the Himayat Helpline at 01933-222364
Eligibility
The applicant should have passed Class 8th.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 and 35 years. 
The upper age limit for women candidates, and candidates belonging to PVTGs, PwDs, transgender people, and other special groups, etc shall be 45 years.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the state of Jammu & Kashmir.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Himayat. Click on Register now.
Step 2: For a new registration, visit the 'Candidate Registration Form' provided on the official website of Himayat: 
Step 3: Fill out the application form.
Step 4: The mandatory fields are Candidate Name, Father or Guardian Name, Gender, Date of Birth, District, Block, Permanent Address, and Email ID).
Step 5: The non-mandatory fields are Aadhar Number, Ration Card Number, Educational Qualification, and Interested Courses.
Step 6: Select the course(s) you are interested in.
Step 7: Finally, click the "Submit" icon to submit your application.
Documents Required
2 passport-size photographs.
Attested a photocopy of ID proof.
Attested photocopy of District Employment & Counselling Centre registration card.
Attested a photocopy of the state subject certificate.
Attested photocopy of D.O.B certificate.
Attested a photocopy of the qualification certificate.
Affidavit as per the given format attached with the registration form.
