Poompuhar District Craft Award
Tamil Nadu
CraftCraftFinancial AssistanceFinancial AssistancePrize
Details
The "Poompuhar District Craft Award" scheme was launched in the year 2011-2012 by the Department of Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles & Khadi, Govt. of Tamil Nadu. The award was introduced to recognize and honor the artisans district-wise. The awards are conferred every year and consist of a cash prize of ₹10,000/-, a silver medal, and a certificate. The award is granted annually.

Benefits
Cash Prize of ₹10,000/-. 
Silver Medal.
Certificate.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu.
Handicraft competitions will be conducted in the following 16 types of handicrafts: Panchaloka Idols, Brass Lamps and Brass Artifacts, Thanjavur Paintings, Thanjavur Plates, Wood Sculptures, Stone Sculptures, Fire Clay, Kalamkari Pathik and Applique Work, Pulp Toys, Mat Weaving, Bamboo and Palm Leaf Products, Neti Work, Textiles, Temple Jewellery, Pictorial Embroidery Work and Other Handicrafts.
The experience of the artisans and the service rendered by them in their profession and other special features will also be taken into consideration during the passing.
Application Process
Offline
Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours-Monday-Friday) to the Poombukar Head Office. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Address Proof (Family Card/ Voter ID Card/Driving License).
Aadhaar Card.
Front Page of Bank Passbook.
Artisan's Affidavit on ₹20/- Stamp Paper, attested by a First Class Criminal Judge or Notary Public.
Recommendation Certificate, attested by any of the Managers of Poombucar Outlets and Manufacturing Plants / the respective Area Assistant Directors (Handicrafts / Craft Council (Tamil Nadu/India/World) under the Office of the Development Commissioner, New Delhi.
Photographs of the Item to be offered for selection.
