Team Production Award
Tamil Nadu
AwardGroupHandicraftPrizeProduction
Details
The "Team Production Award" scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, & Khadi Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This award is being given to artisans for handicraft items to be made by a team. This award will be given to 3 groups every year with a cash prize of ₹40,000/- 4 grams gold medal, Thamirapattiram and a certificate. The applicant applies through poompucar sales and manufacturing plant managers.

Benefits
Cash Prize of ₹40,000/-.
4 gm Gold Medal.
One Thamirapattiram. 
Certificate.
Eligibility
The group should be from Tamil Nadu.
The group applying for a group production award must have more than two artisans as members.
The group should be Tamil Nadu manufacturers of handicrafts.
The craft submitted for this award should be produced by the group.
Application Process
Offline
Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: In this application, each member should mention his name and member's work in the production separately.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph of Members.
Address Proof of Members.
Aadhaar Card of Members.
Front Page of Passbook of Members.
Photograph of the item.
Exhibitions Photograph (if any members of the group attended exhibitions).
Affidavit Joint Group Undertaking on Stamp Paper ₹20.
Recommendation Certificate, attested by any of the Managers of Poombucar Outlets and Manufacturing Plants / the respective Area Assistant Directors (Handicrafts / Craft Council (Tamil Nadu/India/World) under the Office of the Development Commissioner, New Delhi.
