Gen Next Competition
Tamil Nadu
ArtisansGenerationHandicraftPrizeYoungsters
Details
The "Gen Next Competition" scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, and Khadi Dept, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to ensure that the traditional handicrafts of Tamil Nadu survive and are passed on to the next generation, it is necessary to enthuse the youngsters in the field. To achieve this, a craft competition was introduced from the year 2013-2014 onwards for artisans below 30 years of age. 

Benefits
Cash Prize of ₹2,000/-.
Silver Medal. 
Certificate.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu. 
The applicant should be below 30 years of age.
Handicraft competitions will be conducted in the following 16 types of handicrafts: Panchaloka Idols, Brass Lamps and Brass Artifacts, Thanjavur Paintings, Thanjavur Plates, Wood Carvings, Stone Sculptures, Fire Clay Sculptures, Applique and Kalamkari work, Paper Pulp Toys, Weaving, Bamboo and Palm Leaf Products, Neti Work, Fiber Products, Temple jewelry, Image Stitching Work, Other Handicrafts. 
The examination will be conducted based on places of prominence in handicraft industries. The center and date of the exam will be announced later.
Application Process
Offline
Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours-Monday-Friday) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Chairman and Managing Director
Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation 759, Anna Road, Chennai-600 002.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Two Passport-size Photograph.
Birth Certificate.
Educational Certificate.
Address Proof (Family Card / Voter ID Card / Driving License). 
Aadhaar Card.   
Bank Account Book with Photo.
Artisan's Affidavit on ₹20/- Stamp Paper, attested by a First Class Criminal Judge or Notary Public.
Recommendation Certificate, attested by any of the Managers of Poombucar Outlets and Manufacturing Plants / the respective Area Assistant Directors (Handicrafts / Craft Council (Tamil Nadu/India/World) under the Office of the Development Commissioner, New Delhi.
