Living Craft Treasure Award
Tamil Nadu
ArtisansAwardFinancial AssistanceHandicraftsSenior Citizen
Details
The "Living Craft Treasure Award" scheme was launched by the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles, and Khadi Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. This is the highest award for handicrafts at the state level was introduced in the year 2013-2014 to craftsperson’s of eminence who are above the age of 65 years. This award consists of a cash prize of Rs.1.00 lakh, a thamirapattiram, an 8-gram gold medal, and a certificate. The award is granted yearly.

Benefits
Cash Prize of ₹1,00,000/-. 
Thamirapattiram.
8-gram Gold Medal.
Certificate.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu. 
The applicant should be working in the handicraft industry in Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be 65 years of age or above.
The experience of the craftsman and the service he has rendered in his profession's special features will be taken into consideration during selection.
Application Process
Offline
Advertisements are released in June every year.
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours-Monday-Friday) to the Head Office only through Poompucar Sales and Manufacturing Plant Managers.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE: 
Artisans participating in the examination should send the handicrafts.
Application and all documents attached with applications should be on A4 size paper.
All documents should be done. Page Numbered and Spiral Binding.
All the above should be sent details and recording on CD.
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Age Proof.
Educational Certificate.
Skill Qualification Certificate.
Address Proof.
Aadhaar Card.
Front Page of Passbook.
Craftsman Service photograph.
Certificate of Any Person (Well-wisher/Personally aware).
Artisan's Affidavit on ₹20/- Stamp Paper, attested by a First Class Criminal Judge or Notary Public.
Recommendation Certificate, attested by any of the Managers of Poombucar Outlets and Manufacturing Plants / the respective Area Assistant Directors (Handicrafts / Craft Council (Tamil Nadu/India/World) under the Office of the Development Commissioner, New Delhi.
