Pension Benefit (GBOCWWB)
Goa
ConstructionFinancial AssistanceLabourPensionWorker
Details
"Pension Benefit (GBOCWWB)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa. Through this scheme, a member of the Fund who has been working as a building worker for not less than one year, be eligible for a pension of ₹300/- per month, on completion of sixty years of age. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Pension of ₹300/- per month, with an increase of ₹10/- for every completed year of service beyond 5 years.
*The pension will be payable from the first day of the succeeding month to the month in which he/she becomes 60 years old. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be registered as a 'Building Worker' for not less than one year with the Goa Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should be a member of the Fund of the Board.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Labour and Employment, Goa.
OR
The interested applicant should visit the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment, 2nd Floor, Sharma Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa (0832-2437081/82/83, com-labo.goa@nic.in) and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Office of the Commissioner, Labour & Employment.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Worker Registration Card/Number.
Receipt of Payment of First & Last Subscription with the Board.
Address Proof.
Identity Card.
Passbook.
Challans.
