Scheme for Grant of Pension Benefits to Journalists
Puducherry
JournalistMediaNewspaperPensionPress
Details
The "Scheme for Grant of Pension Benefits to Journalists" by the Department of Information & Publicity, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to provide financial support and recognition to eligible media professionals. The scheme offers a monthly pension of ₹6,000/- to qualified journalists who are 58 years or above in age, and have served for a minimum of 20 years in roles such as Full-time Editor, Reporter, Sub-Editor, Press Photographer / Videographer / Correspondent.

Benefits
Pension Amount: ₹6,000/- per month, or as may be fixed by the Government from time to time.
Date of Payment: Payment will be made on the 10th of every month.
Mode of Payment: Payment will be made through the Electronic Clearing System. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by birth or by continuous residence for not less than ten years.
The applicant should be 58 years or above in age at the time of application.
The applicant should have served for a minimum of 20 years in roles such as Full-time Editor, Reporter, Sub-Editor, Press Photographer / Videographer / Correspondent of a Newspaper/Periodical/News Agency/Electronic Media, including Newspapers and Periodicals published in Puducherry and News Agencies/Electronic Media having headquarters outside Puducherry. 
In the case of Media Persons who are unable to pursue their profession on account of chronic ill-health or are permanently incapacitated from performing their job, the pension shall be sanctioned if they have put in service for at least 10 years in any capacity (as mentioned in Point 4), irrespective of their present age, if they meet all the other eligibility criteria.
The applicant should not be receiving pension/honoraria from the Central/State Government.
In the case of the death of the journalist, his/her spouse is eligible for 50%)of the pension.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The applicant should visit the Office of the Department of Information & Publicity or one of its Branch Offices. The Office Timings are Monday to Friday, 08:45 am to 01:00 pm & 02:00 pm to 05:45 pm. Submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Member Secretary-cum-Treasurer.
Step 4: Upon successful receipt of the application, a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
For the Applicant
Nativity/Nationality/Residence Certificate (Form-II), from an officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar. 
Income Certificate (Form-II), from an officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank of a Deputy Tahsildar. 
Birth Certificate or Transfer Certificate/School Leaving Certificate.
Experience Certificate (Form-II).
Certificate regarding pensions/honoraria received from other schemes.
Medical Certificate for Physically Handicapped or those with incurable diseases.
Aadhaar Card.
For the Beneficiary
The 'Life Certificate' should be produced every year to the effect that he/she is alive to avail of the benefit. 
