Innovation In Science Pursuit For Inspired Research (INSPIRE) - Faculty Fellowship
Ministry Of Science And Technology
FacultyFellowshipPhDResearchScience
Details
The "INSPIRE FACULTY FELLOWSHIP" component provides opportunities to 100 persons every year with Ph.D. qualifications in the age group of 27-32 years for 5 years to carry out research in both basic and applied science areas including engineering, medicine, agriculture, and veterinary sciences for establishing themselves as independent researchers. It grants an attractive fellowship for a duration of 5 years. The objective of the scheme is to encourage young researchers to continue research in areas of S&T, Medicine, Agriculture, Pharmacy, and Veterinary Sciences.

Purpose
1. To provide attractive opportunities for young achievers for developing independent scientific profiles and launch them toward fulfilling long-term careers.
2. To augment high-quality scientific manpower in scientific and educational institutions, especially the Central and State universities.
3. While vertical migration from the other INSPIRE components would be encouraged, the faculty fellowship component also provides the opportunity to meritorious candidates for lateral entry into INSPIRE scheme.
4. INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship provides an opportunity to post-doctoral fellows for carrying out independent research however does not guarantee a regular position after 5 years.

Benefits
Amount
Each selected INSPIRE Faculty Fellow will be eligible to receive a consolidated amount of ₹1,25,000/- per month as a fellowship with an annual increment of ₹2,000/-. 
In addition, a Research Grant of ₹7,00,000 every year for 5 years will also be provided to each successful candidate including the carry-forward amount, if any, from the previous year. 
The consolidated amount of ₹1,25,000/- per month is an all-inclusive fellowship and taxable as per the Indian IT Act.

Duration
The INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship is for a maximum period of 5 (five) years.
Eligibility
Essential
Indian citizens and People of Indian origin with PIO status having Ph.D. degrees (in science, mathematics, engineering, pharmacy, medicine, and agriculture-related subjects) from any recognized university in the world.
Candidates should possess a minimum of 60% (or equivalent CGPA) marks throughout their academic profile starting from the Senior Secondary Examination (Class 12 onwards).
Those that have submitted their Ph.D. theses and are awaiting the award of their degree shall also be eligible. However, selection for the Fellowship will be confirmed only after the Ph.D. degree is awarded.
The upper age limit as of 1st January of the respective year of advertisement, is 32 years for General Category. However, for SC, ST, and Women candidates, the upper age limit will be 37 years. For persons with benchmark disabilities (Divyangjan with not less than 40 percent of a specified disability), the upper age limit will be 42 years.
Publication(s) in highly reputed journals demonstrating the outstanding research potential of the candidate.
Candidates who are employed in regular/contractual positions within India may also apply for INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship for improvement and enhancement in their career prospects but, upon selection, the candidates will need to resign (no lien or deputation or any type of leave would be accepted) from the current job and organization before taking up the INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship. 
Candidates, who get selected for regular positions in any institute/university after submission of the IFF application, would be entitled to receive the Research Grant only as INSPIRE Faculty Fellows.

Desirable
Candidates who are within the top 1% in Class 12 examination, IIT-JEE rank holders, 1st rank holders either in graduation or post-graduation level university examinations.
Application Process
Online
Mode of Application
Eligible candidates need to submit applications ONLINE through the portal of INSPIRE program only. No other mode of submission of the application is permitted.
To apply ONLINE, please visit the website and follow the process described therein. After the successful submission of the application online, the candidate may obtain a printout of the application and keep it for his/her personal reference.

Method of Selection
The Indian National Science Academy (INSA), New Delhi, in coordination with DST, is implementing this INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship Scheme up to the stage of recommendation of candidates for INSPIRE Faculty Fellowship.
A three-tier selection process, viz. evaluation by discipline-based Expert Committees, followed by the recommendations of the Apex Level Committee and INSPIRE Faculty Award Council. Based on the recommendations of these Committees, DST makes the final selection.
Documents Required
For Application
Passport Size Photograph
Class X Mark sheet or Certificate (for proof of Date of Birth)
Proof of Academic Qualifications (Degree / Passing Certificate / Marksheets) (from class 12th standard onwards)
Community/Caste Certificate (only if the applicant belongs to SC/ST)
Letter of appointment (if employed)
First Rank Certificate for applicants who are not INSPIRE Scholars
Details of Professional Recognitions, Awards, and Fellowships received
Details of Professional Training and Research Experience
Any other supporting documents

For receiving the 1st Installment
Bank account detail of the Host Institute
Joining Report
Undertaking signed by the Faculty Fellow
Undertaking signed by the Host Institute
Budget breakup on the usage of Research Grant

In case already enrolled in a Ph.D.
Admission Letter (issued by University Authorities i.e. Registrar, Dean, Director, etc (Only joining as JRF will not be acceptable. In such a case, you should submit as a non-Ph.D. scholar)
Fee Receipt for Ph.D. admission
CV of the Ph. D. Supervisor with last 5 years of research credentials. 
Endorsement Letter (Template available at http://www.online-inspire.gov.in
Methodology and Workplan are also to be submitted online in .pdf format if required.

Upon Selection
Duly signed “Undertaking from INSPIRE Faculty Fellow” 
Undertaking duly signed by both the competent authority from the chosen Host institution and the INSPIRE Faculty Fellow.
Every Faculty Fellow needs to provide budget estimates with year-wise detailed break-up under various Heads such as manpower cost, consumables including chemicals, travel, contingency, overhead costs, etc. and non-recurring cost such as equipment for utilization of the Research Grant to the DST-INSPIRE Programme Division along with joining documents.

Completion of Faculty Fellowship Tenure
To settle the Faculty Fellowship grant upon completion/resignation, INSPIRE Faculty Fellow shall upload all necessary documents in his/her INSPIRE Web-Portal account such as:
1. Final Technical Report in the prescribed format.
2. List of Equipment procured during Faculty fellowship in the prescribed format.
3. Performance Report in the prescribed format.
4. Final Statement of Expenditure (SE) and Year-wise Utilization certificate (UC) for the
Faculty fellowship duration in the prescribed format,
5. Unspent balance if any (unspent balance and other earnings against the released grant (if any), shall be remitted to the Consolidated Fund of India (through Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP) i.e., https://www.bharatkosh.gov.in. and the copy of the same is to be uploaded to the portal.

Transfer or Change of Host Institution (including absorption)
The Faculty Fellow needs to inform the DST-INSPIRE Programme Division immediately with the following documents to effect the change and smooth facilitation of the transfer of funds etc.
Appointment Letter of permanent employment or justification for a change of Host Institution.
NOC from the present Host Institute and Acceptance Letter from the new Host Institute.
Joining Letter from the new Host Institute due to transfer or permanent employment (either the same or a different Host Institution),
Fresh signed copy of the Undertaking (not required in case of permanent employment in the same Host Institution),
Up-to-date financial documents from the present Host Institute (also in case of permanent employment in the same Host Institute).
