Cash Incentive to Wards of ESM (Academic Scholarship)
Puducherry
EducationEx-ServicemanIncentiveStudentWidow
Details
"Cash Incentive to Wards of ESM (Academic Scholarship)" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, the academically meritorious wards of the ESM / Widows of ESM pursuing higher education are provided cash incentive of ₹1,000 per month. The application should be submitted within three months from the date of publication of the result of the respective exam.

Benefits
Cash Incentive of ₹1,000 per month.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Ward of an ESM / Ward of the Widow of an ESM.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The applicant should have scored 95% in Class 11th/12th.
The applicant should have scored 90% in the semester/annual exam of a non-professional course (80% in the case of professional course). 
The applicant should not be in receipt of any other academic scholarship.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM / Widow of the ESM.
Discharge Certificate of the ESM.
Mark Statement/ Certificate (Attested).
Birth Certificate of the Ward (if not already registered with the DSW).
Study Certificate of the Ward (if not already registered with the DSW).
First Page of Bank Passbook.
Declaration by the Ex-Servicemen/Widow.
