Financial Assistance for Marriage for the Construction Workers
Delhi
Construction WorkersFinancial AssistanceLabourMarriage AssistanceWedding Support
Details
The "Financial Assistance for Marriage for the Construction Workers" by the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Delhi, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Through this scheme, financial assistance for marriage is provided to self and for upto 2 children. the building workers having continuous membership of 03 years shall be eligible.

Benefits
Marriage of female registered member: ₹51,000/-.
Marriage of male registered member: ₹35,000/-.
Marriage of daughter of registered members: ₹51,000/-.
Marriage of son of registered members : ₹35,000/-.
Eligibility
For Registration
The applicant should be a resident of Delhi.
The applicant should be a Building/Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For Application
Registered women member Under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
Or,
Wives of registered male members Under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Register Now”.
Step 2: Enter the following mandatory details: Aadhaar Card Number, Name as on Aadhar Card, Mobile Number, Date of Birth (as on Aadhar Card), Gender, etc. Create a password and confirm it. Click “Register”. You will be redirected to the registration page.
Step 3: On the registration page, fill in the mandatory details (Father Name, Mother Name, Photograph, Applicant’s Video, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 4: On the next page, enter the mandatory details regarding your work/workplace (Previous/Current Employer Details, Proof of 90 Days Employment, etc) and upload the mandatory documents in the specified filetype and filesize. Click “Save & Next”.
Step 5: Click on “Add Family Members” to avail the benefits of various schemes.
Step 6: In the next window, add your Bank Account details.
Step 7: In the next window, upload your Aadhaar Card, Address Proof, Birth Proof, Employment Proof, Bank Account details etc.
Step 8: In the next window, the "Affidavit of the Applicant" will be displayed. Verify all the details, and click on the checkbox.
Step 9: Proceed for the online registration fee of ₹25/- through a Debit Card/ Internet Banking/ UPI.
Step 10: Enter the OTP received on your registered mobile number to apply. Note down the Application Number for future reference. Download the acknowledgement receipt.
Track Your Application
Visit the homepage of the website regularly and click on "Track Your Application" to check the status of your application.
Application
Step 1: Visit the DBoCWWB website and click “Apply for Scheme”.
Step 2: Log in through Aadhaar Number/ Registration Card/ OTP.
Step 3: Apply for the “Marriage Assistance” scheme.

Helpline Number (24x1) : 011-41236600
DBOCWWB Department
Number (office hours: 9:30AM - 6:00PM) : 011-23813846
Documents Required
Age Proof of Groom,
Age Proof of Bride,
Marriage Card (Original),
Marriage Photograph of Applicant with Spouse/Bride and Groom,
Marriage Certificate.
