"Subsidy for the Purchase of Fiber-reinforced Plastic Cattamaran/ Vallam/ Wooden Nava/ Marine Plywood Canoe With Nets" under "Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries"
Puducherry
BoatFinancial AssistanceFishermanProcurementSubsidy
Details
The scheme "Subsidy for the Purchase of Fiber-reinforced Plastic Cattamaran/ Vallam/ Wooden Nava/ Marine Plywood Canoe With Nets" is a Sub-Component under the Umbrella Scheme "Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries" by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of increasing marine fish production by extending subsidies to the fishermen for the procurement of fiber-reinforced plastic vallam with nets.

Benefits
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹50,000 per unit in case of fibre-reinforced plastic catamaran and marine plywood canoe with nets, linked to own finance/loan component from National Co-operative Development Corporation/bank.
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,000 per unit in case of fibre-reinforced plastic vallam with nets, linked to own finance/loan component from National Co-operative Development Corporation/bank.
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹40,000 per unit in respect of wooden nava with net, linked to own finance/loan component from National Co-operative Development Corporation/bank.
50% subsidy to a maximum of ₹5,000 per unit for the procurement of inland catamaran with nets (unit cost ₹10,000).
*The rate of subsidy may be fixed by the Government from time to time.
Eligibility
The applicant should either belong to the fishermen community or be one of those professionally engaged in fishing/fish trade occupation on a full-time basis/prospective entrepreneurs.
The applicant must have resided in the Union territory of Puducherry for a continuous period of not less than five years at the time of applying for extending subsidies/ grants. 
The applicant must have been enrolled as a member of the Fishermen Co-operative Society and be above the age of 23 years and below 60 years.
The applicant must not have been a recipient of Old Age Pension, issued by the department. 
The applicant should not be employed in Government/ Government Undertakings/Fishermen Co-operative Society. 
The applicant must not have any dues to be paid to the Department/Fishermen Co-operative Societies at the time of making the application. 
In the case of male applicants, they should possess sea fishing experience in any mechanized or motorized/non-motorized traditional crafts for a minimum period of 5 years, issued by the owners. 
In the case of women applicants, they should possess five years of fish trade experience issued by the Village Panchayat concerned.
The applicant should be ready to deposit 50% of the cost of craft and net with the Federation/Marketing Union/the Fishermen Co-operative Societies as per the norms/pattern of assistance modified from time to time. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Election Photo Identity Card (for Proof of Identity).
Ration Card (for Proof of Address).
Birth Certificate (for Proof of Age).
Membership Certificate from the President/Administrator of Fishermen/Fisherwoman Co-operative Society (in the case of fishermen).
Document attesting full-time engagement in fishing or fish trade occupation (in the case of Fish Traders).
Residence Certificate indicating a continuous period of not less than five years in the Union territory of Puducherry (from Deputy Tahsildar of the Area of Residence).
Enrollment certificate as a member of the Fishermen Co-operative Society.
Declaration of not being a recipient of Old Age Pension.
Declaration of not being employed in Government/Government Undertakings/Fishermen Co-operative Society.
Declaration certifying that the applicant has no outstanding dues to the Department/Fishermen Co-operative Societies at the time of application.
Proof of Sea Fishing Experience (for male applicants).
Proof of Fishing Trade Experience, issued by the Village Panchayat (for female applicants).
Loan Sanction Orders/Acceptance for Loan Sanction from the Bank/National Co-operative Development Corporation.
