West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Scheme: Accidental Disability
West Bengal
AccidentDisabilityFinancial AssistanceLabourMigrantSocial WelfareWorker
Details
Launched on 25th April 2023, "West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Scheme: Accidental Disability" is a social welfare scheme by the West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Board, Labour Department, Government of West Bengal. Under this scheme, One-time assistance is provided to the registered Migrant Worker in case of disability arising out of accidents during work.

Benefits
₹ 50,000/- in case of 40% to 80 % disability.
₹ 1,00,000/- in case of more than 80% disability.
Eligibility
For registration as a Migrant Worker:
The applicant must be a resident of West Bengal.
The applicant’s age should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant must be ordinarily a worker who is employed/ likely to be employed in any State/Union Territories other than the state of West Bengal/ Outside India.
For the application of Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a migrant worker.
The applicant should be registered with the West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Board, Labour Dept, Govt of West Bengal.
The migrant worker should have a disability of 40%.
The disability should have been caused due to an accident during work.
The disability should be certified by a Government Hospital.
Application Process
Online
For Registration:
Step 1: Download and install “KARMASATHI (PARIJAYEE SHRAMIK )” APP in android mobile phone from “GOOGLE PLAY STORE”.
Step 2: Choose language ( English/Bengali/Hindi) for and tap ‘NEXT’ to proceed further.
Step 3: Choose the option ‘Migrant Worker’ and tap ‘GO’ to proceed further.
Step 4: A Screen will appear to enter ‘Mobile Number/ MWIN’ . For new registration, a Migrant Worker will enter his Mobile No. to generate ‘OTP’.
Step 5: Provide Workers information in Basic Details, Address Details and Employment Details and tap ‘CONFIRM SUBMIT ’.
Step 6: A Provisional MWIN will be generated and SMS will be sent to the Mobile No.
Step 7: To complete application and to get permanent MWIN please tap the menu “incomplete application” and complete the application by providing more information such as bank accounts, ration card and nominee details.
Step 8: Upload the mandatory documents and Submit to complete the application process. to complete the registration process.

For Application:
Step 1: Open the “KARMASATHI (PARIJAYEE SHRAMIK )” APP and login through OTP.
Step 2: To get welfare assistance, please tap the menu “Services”.
Step 3:  Provide details of claim and upload respective documents, mentioned therein, for the concerned scheme and Submit to complete the application process.

Search Migrant Worker Details:
Migrant workers can search their details in the portal through providing Migrant Worker Identification Number (MWIN)/ Migrant Worker's Registered Mobile Number/ Migrant Worker's Aadhar Number.

Renewal of Registration as a Beneficiary:
Migrant Worker, registered as beneficiary, will have to renew his/ her registration on yearly basis, through the portal.
Documents Required
Photo (max Size 50 KB, jpg or jpeg file only).
Aadhaar Card (both sides of the document to be uploaded as a single file) (max size 150 KB, pdf file only).
First page of bank account particulars (max size 150 KB, pdf file only).
Employment Certificate.
Disability Certificate issued by any Government Hospital.
Any other documents as required.
