Goa Village & Municipal Child Committee Grants And Awards Scheme
Goa
AwardChild RightsMunicipalPanchayatVillage
Details
Introduced in the year 2015-16, the scheme "Goa Village & Municipal Child Committee Grants and Awards Scheme (GVMCCGS)" covers all the Village and Municipal Child Committees set up under Rule 7 of The Goa Children's Homes Rules, 2004 by the local bodies as per provisions of the rules. The winner is awarded an annual financial grant of ₹ 10,000/- towards administrative expenses incurred on organizing the activities of the Committee. The applicant should be the concerned local body i.e. a Panchayat or a Municipal Local Body.

Benefits
Amount: An annual financial grant of ₹ 10,000/- towards administrative expenses incurred on organizing the activities of the Committee.
Instalments: The grant will be released in a single instalment within three months. 
Mode: All payments will be made only through electronic transfers favouring the local body concerned.
Eligibility
The applicant should be the concerned local body i.e. a Panchayat or a Municipal local body.
The applicant should have established a Village or Municipal Child Committee as prescribed under Rule 7 of The Goa Children's Homes Rules, 2004.
The Committee should have met at least once in the last three months prior to submission of the application.
The Committee should have met to discuss and resolve the issues relating to children within the jurisdiction of the local body.
The concerned local body should have provided the space for facilitating sittings of the Committee in its premises as and when required.
Application Process
Offline
The application as per the prescribed format (made available at the time of the release of the press note), along with the supporting documents showing the activities of the Child Committee of the Local Body, shall be addressed/submitted directly to:
The Director, Directorate of Women And Child Development, Panaji-Goa, 2nd floor, Old Education Building, 18th June Road, Altinho, Panaji, Goa - 403 001.

Applicant
The application should be submitted only by the following - 
1.   The Village Panchayat.
            (a)   The proposal be signed by its Secretary, along with the resolution of the Panchayat Body.
            (b)   The proposal should be duly recommended by the concerned Block Development Officer.
2.   The Municipality.
            (a)   The proposal be signed by its Chief Executive, along with the resolution of the body. 

Deadline
The application shall be submitted within six months from the commencement of the financial year.
Documents Required
Documents showing the activities of the Child Committee.
