Mukhyamantri Nirman Shramikon Ke Bachon Hetu Nihshulk Coaching Sahaayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
CoachingConstruction WorkersEducationLabour
Details
The Labor Department of Chhattisgarh introduced the "Mukhyamantri Nirman Shramikon Ke Bachon Hetu Nihshulk Coaching Sahaayata Yojana" on March 1, 2023, through the "Building and Construction Workers Welfare Board." Under this scheme, free coaching assistance will be provided to the children of registered workers. Only the first two children of the worker will be eligible for this scheme.

Benefits
Free coaching assistance will be provided to the children of registered workers.

Note: Construction workers and their children registered under the Board are allowed to appear for competitive examinations as per educational qualification like PSC (Public Service Commission), CG VYAPAM (Chhattisgarh Professional Examination Board), SSC (Staff Selection Commission), IBPS (Banking), RAILWAY (Railway). ), There is a provision to provide free coaching through selected coaching institutes for POLICE ENTRANCE (Police Recruitment Examination).
Eligibility
The worker should be registered under The Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The registered worker should have at least one year of regular membership.
The first two children of the worker are eligible for the scheme. 
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Construction Worker Under  CBOCWWB
Step-1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department.
Step-2: On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board".
Step-3: Enter the following details
Select : "Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board"
Select Service : "Labour Registration"
What do you want to do : "Registration Application"
Click Proceed.
Step-4: Now enter your details :Name
Father name.
Aadhar card.
D.O.B.
Age.
Step-5:Click on submit only after uploading all the important information and documents given in Part 1, Part 2, Part 3.
Step-6: When you click on submit, your registration ID will be sent to your mobile and email.
Apply
Step-1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
Step-2: On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board
Step-3:  Enter the following details
Select : "Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board".
Select Service : Scheme
What do you want to do : "Application".
Click Proceed.
Step-4: Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click proceed.
Step-5: When you enter the district and registration number, an OTP will be sent to your mobile for verification. 
Step-6: After this, a dashboard will open in front of you, containing information about your name, address, age, and caste etc.
Step-7: After that, you select your Yojana and upload your important documents and basic information.
Step-8: Click "Submit" to register yourself for this scheme.
Documents Required
Aadhar card
Passport-size photograph
Labor Registration Card
Self-Declaration Certificate
Copy of educational qualification certificate/mark list
