Dhobhi Hetu Avashyak Upkaran Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
DevelopmentFinancial SupportUnorganized Workers
Details
The Labor Department of Chhattisgarh introduced the "Dhobhi Hetu Avashyak Upkaran Sahayata Yojana" on January 10, 2018, through the "Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board." Under this scheme, the washerman is provided with materials worth Rs. 1,500/-, including electronic/coal iron, clothespins, and a washing paddle (Thappi/Kutela).

Benefits
Provided materials worth ₹1,500/-, including electronic/coal iron, clothespins, and a washing paddle (Thappi/Kutela).
Eligibility
Applicant must be registered Unorganized worker of State Social Security Board. 
The applicant should be a Dhobhi.
Applicant age must be between 18 to 60 years. 
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
Step-1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
Step-2: On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Step-3: Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Step-4: Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Step-5: Fill out the online "Registration form".
Step-6: Submit.

How to Apply
Step-1: All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
Step-2: On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Step-3:  Enter the following details
Select : "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Select Service : Scheme
What do you want to do : "Application".
Click Proceed.
Step-4: Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click proceed.
Step-5: When you enter the district and registration number, an OTP will be sent to your mobile for verification. 
Step-6: After this, a dashboard will open in front of you, containing information about your name, address, age, and caste etc.
Step-7: After that, you select your Yojana and upload your important documents and basic information.
Step-8: Click "Submit" to register yourself for this scheme.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Copy of ration card.
