Child Adoption - Tamil Nadu
Tamil Nadu
AccommodationAdoptionChildNGOParents
Details
The scheme "Child Adoption - Tamil Nadu" was launched by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme aims to provide a family for orphaned, abandoned, destitute and neglected children. According to Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), “adoption is a process by which a child who is abandoned / separated from biological parents, becomes the legitimate child of a new set of parents referred to as adoptive parents, with all the rights, privileges and responsibilities that are attached to this relationship”.

Benefits
Accommodation, food, and health care to the babies till they are given in adoption.
A family to the destitute child and a child to childless parents.
Special concessions are given to female government employees to adopt children:
Special adoption leave of 270 days is extended to female government servants of the state government who adopt a child below one year. The leave is eligible only from the date of legalization of adoption. 
Eligibility
The parents must have at least two years of a stable marital relationship.
The single prospective adoptive parents should be between 30-55 years of age. 
An unmarried/single male persons are not eligible to adopt a girl child.
The parents should have adequate financial resources to upbring the child.
Age Criteria:
For a child up to 4 years old:
Maximum composite age of the Prospective Adoptive Parents: 90 years.
For a single Prospective Adoptive Parent: Minimum age 25 years, maximum age 45 years.
For a child above 4 years up to 8 years old:
Maximum composite age of the Prospective Adoptive Parents: 100 years.
For a single Prospective Adoptive Parent: Minimum age 25 years, maximum age 50 years.
For a child above 8 years up to 18 years old:
Maximum composite age of the Prospective Adoptive Parents: 110 years.
For a single Prospective Adoptive Parent: Minimum age 25 years, maximum age 55 years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office State Adoption Resource Agency/Directorate of Social Defence/Concerned Probation Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned staff.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the State Adoption Resource Agency/Directorate of Social Defence/Concerned Probation Officer. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
PAN Card/Passport.
Proof of Residence (Aadhaar Card/Voter ID card/Passport /Driving License/ Electricity Card).
Proof of Income of Last Year (Pay Bill/ Income Tax Certificate).
Copy of Marriage Certificate & Photograph.
Copy of Birth Certificate of the Prospective Adoptive Parents.
Medical Certificate. 
Letter of Identification (from their friends/relatives). 
