Mukhyamantri Samajik Samrasta Antarjatiya Vivah Shagun Yojana
Haryana
Financial AssistanceInter-caste MarriageScheduled CasteShagunVivah
Details
The scheme “Mukhyamantri Samajik Samrasta Antarjatiya Vivah Shagun Yojana” is implemented by the Welfare of Scheduled Castes & Backward Classes Department, Government of Haryana to promote communal harmony by encouraging inter-caste marriages. The objective of the scheme is in diminishing caste consciousness among the people and to encourage inter-caste marriages. This scheme is effective from 01.04.1983.
      Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹2,50,000/- is given to the couple when a Non-Scheduled Caste boy or girl marries a Scheduled Caste girl/boy. The amount is provided as an incentive to the married couple and deposited in the joint account of the couple for 3 years lock-in period. This is a 50:50 sharing basis scheme of the  Government of India/State Government.

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹2,50,000/- is given to the couple when a Non-Scheduled Caste boy or girl marries a Scheduled Caste girl/boy.
Note: Out of the total ₹2,50,000/-, ₹1,25,000/- will be directly transferred to the joint account of the couple immediately after the marriage. The remaining ₹1,25,000/- will be deposited in the couple's joint fixed deposit account for a lock-in period of 3 years, without the facility for its pre-mature encashment.
Eligibility
Both spouses should be citizens of India, and one spouse must belong to the Scheduled Caste community i.e. a Non-Scheduled Caste boy or girl marries with a Scheduled Caste girl/boy.
The beneficiary (he or she) should be a permanent resident of Haryana State.
The beneficiary (he or she) should not have received benefits under a similar scheme.
The beneficiary can apply for the incentive within 3 years from the date of marriage.
The bride should be at least 18 years old.
The groom should be at least 21 years old.
The benefit of the scheme is only applicable for the first marriage.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track his/her application through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID.
Documents Required
Age proof of the bride and groom
Haryana residence proof of the SC member of the couple
Scheduled Castes Certificate of the SC member of the couple
Marriage registration certificate
Marriage Card from both sides (If arranged marriage)
Marriage Photograph
Aadhaar Cards of the both
Copy of joint bank account passbook duly linked with Aadhaar and first name of applicant lady
PAN Card
Affidavit of First Marriage
Any other documents as required
