Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities by Establishing Piggery, Sheep and Goat Units (General) under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana
Haryana
Animal HusbandryAntodayayFinancial AssistanceGoat UnitPiggery UnitSheep UnitSubsidySubsidyUnemployed
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Providing Employment Opportunities by Establishing Piggery, Sheep and Goat Units (General) under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana” is implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Government of Haryana.  Under this scheme, an unemployed resident of Haryana who is between 18 and 60 years of age can avail a 25% subsidy on the cost of livestock, provided they have taken a loan for establishing a 10+1 Piggery unit or a 15+1 Sheep/Goat unit.

Benefits
Financial Assistance under the Scheme:
Establishment of 10+1 Piggery units: 
25% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for establishment of a 10+1 Piggery unit. A maximum amount of ₹25,000/- will be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.
Establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat units:
25% subsidy on the cost of livestock which has been availed as a loan by the beneficiary for establishment of 15+1 Sheep/Goat unit. A maximum amount of ₹24,500/- will be provided as financial assistance in form of a subsidy.
Financial Assistance for Insurance under the Scheme:
Insurance assistance will be provided as per the available departmental scheme if operational during the year; otherwise, the beneficiaries will have to arrange for insurance of animals and shall pay the insurance premium. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be 18 to 60 years of age and a resident of Haryana.
The applicant must be unemployed.
There would be no mandatory educational qualifications or training requirements.
The applicant should have a space/shed for keeping animals.
The applicant would have to submit a Self-Declaration for being unemployed and for undertaking to abide by other conditions as required under the Scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online - Via CSCs
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, applicants should visit the Deputy Director's office in their district and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill out the application form and attach all the relevant documents.
Step 03: Submit the completely filled application form and attached documents to the concerned official in the office.
Step 04: The Deputy Director of the concerned district will examine the applications on a first-come, first-served basis and process them accordingly.
Documents Required
1. Privaar Pahchan Patra (PPP ID)
2. Copy of Aadhaar Card
3. Copy of PAN Card
4. Copy of Bank Passbook or Cancelled Cheque
5. Proof of availability of shed/space for keeping animals
6. Any other documents as required
