Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme - Sikkim
Sikkim
Below Poverty LineDirect Benefit TransferOld AgePension
Details
The scheme “Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS)” was started by the Department of Women & Child Welfare, Govt. of Sikkim in 2014. Under this scheme, a pension is provided to elderly citizens above the age of 60 years belonging to the Below Poverty Line (BPL) category and the beneficiary will receive a monthly pension of ₹ 1500/-, ₹ 2000/- & ₹ 2500/- as per eligibility criteria.

Benefits
A monthly pension of ₹ 1500/- to the old aged person between the age group of 60 years – 69 years.
A monthly pension of ₹ 2000/- to the old aged person between the age group of 70 years + and above.
A monthly pension of ₹ 2500/- to the old aged persons having attained the age of 80 years and above.
The beneficiary will get a pension as long as he/she is alive.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Sikkim.
The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The applicant should have attained the age of 60 years and above.
The applicant should not have any source of income.
The applicant should not be a recipient of salary/pension/family pension from Central Government / other State Governments.
The applicant should have opened the Bank Account under “Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana”.

Note 01: In case both the husband & wife are old age persons and are eligible for Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS), only one member of the family shall be awarded the pension. In case of death of the pensioner, such pension shall be transferred to his/her spouse, if alive on surrender of the passbook, provided he/she has attained the age of 60 (sixty) years of age or more.

Note 02: Each beneficiary of the Pensions should submit "Life Certificate" in the prescribed format in the month of November every year failing which it will be presumed that the beneficiary is either died or migrated outside the State of Sikkim and the payment of pension shall be stopped forthwith without further notice.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: The applicant has to approach their concerned Gram Panchayat /Municipality / Municipal Corporation office. Consult with the designated authority about the applying procedure and the local department office for this scheme. Collect the application form.

Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents and submit it to the designated receiving authority.

Post-Application Processes:

Step 01: On receipt of an application in the prescribed Form, the same shall be scrutinized by the Selection Committee. Thereafter, the approval shall be accorded by the Secretary.

Step 02: A copy of the order for the grant and payment of pensions shall be endorsed to the District Collectors, Sub-Divisional Magistrates, Gram Vikash Adhikari and Panchayats where the applicant actually resides and the applicant himself/herself.

Step 03: The pension shall be distributed through Direct Benefit Transfer System or any other system as may be decided by the Sanctioning / Competent Authority from time to time.

Step 04: If required, the concerned officer of the Social Justice, Empowerment and Welfare Department shall make a tour of the village to verify the continued existence of the beneficiary and other relevant particulars.

Step 05: Each beneficiary of the Pensions should submit "Life Certificate" in the prescribed format in the month of November every year failing which it will be presumed that the beneficiary is either died or migrated outside the State of Sikkim and the payment of pension shall be stopped forthwith without further notice.
Documents Required
Recent passport size photographs – 3 Nos;
Attested photocopy of Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification as the case may be i.e. Income certificate, Caste certificate.
Attested photocopy of the Below Poverty Line Certificate.
Birth Certificate or Electoral photo Identity Card or any other valid document having recorded the date as proof of age.
Attested copy of Aadhar Card.
Attested photocopy of first page of the Bank/Post Office Passbook along with the photocopy of latest updated account.
