Scheme for Establishment of Hi-Tech and Mini Dairy Units under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana
Haryana
Animal HusbandryFinancial AssistanceHi-TechMilch AnimalMini Dairy UnitSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Scheme for Establishment of Hi-Tech and Mini Dairy Units under Mukhya Mantri Antyodaya Parivaar Utthan Yojana (MMAPUY)” is implemented by the Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, a resident of Haryana who is between 18 and 60 years of age can avail a 25% subsidy on the cost of two milch animals. The subsidy can be availed as a loan for the purchase of these milch animals by the beneficiary for the establishment of dairy units with two milch animals.

Benefits
Financial Assistance under the Scheme:
Dairy units of 2 milch animals:
25 % subsidy on the cost of milch animals which has been availed as a loan for the purchase of these milch animals by the beneficiary for the establishment of dairy units of 2 milch animals;
Financial Assistance for Insurance under the Scheme:
Insurance assistance will be provided as per the available departmental scheme if operational during the year; otherwise, the beneficiaries will have to arrange for insurance of animals and shall pay the insurance premium.
Eligibility
The applicant should be of 18 to 60 years of age and a resident of Haryana.
The applicant must be unemployed.
There would be no mandatory educational qualifications or training requirements.
The applicant can apply for a dairy unit of 2 Milch animals only.
The applicant should have space/shed for keeping milch animals.
The applicant would have to submit a Self-Declaration for being unemployed and for undertaking to abide by other conditions as required under the Scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online - Via CSCs
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, applicants should visit the Deputy Director's office in their district and collect the application form.
Step 02: Fill out the application form and attach all the relevant documents.
Step 03: Submit the completely filled application form and attached documents to the concerned official in the office.
Step 04: The Deputy Director of the concerned district will examine the applications on a first-come, first-served basis and process them accordingly.
Documents Required
1. Privaar Pahchan Patra (PPP ID)
2. Copy of Aadhaar Card
3. Copy of PAN Card
4. Copy of Bank Passbook or Cancelled Cheque
5. Any other documents as required
