Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS) for Thrust Sectors: Assistance For Marble, IT & ITES, Electric Vehicles & Spare Parts, Toys Units And Semi-Conduct or Industries Sectors
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
Electric VehiclesEntrepreneurshipFurniture SectorIncentivesIndustries SectorsIPSIT & ITESMarbleReimbursementSemi-ConductSpare PartsSubsidyThrust SectorsToys Units
Details
The scheme “Assistance For Marble, IT & ITES, Electric Vehicles & Spare Parts, Toys Units And Semi-Conduct or Industries Sectors” is a sub scheme under the “Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS)” for MSME Sector. It was launched on 3rd July, 2015 for a period of five years by the Dept. of Industries, U.T. Administration Of Dadra & Nagar Haveli And Daman & Diu. Now it has been extended further from 20th May, 2022 and shall be operative till 19th May, 2027.
Objective of the "Investment Promotion Scheme (IPS)”:
The scheme envisages to provide further fillip to the specialized Thrust Sectors such as Plastic Furniture, Steel Furniture, Brass Furniture, Metal Furniture, Cane Furniture, Wooden Furniture, Bamboo Furniture, Fibre Glass Furniture and Marble Furniture etc, therefore making the U.T. a Special Hub for the furniture sector: maximize Women participation in the business sector, reduce unemployment among the local residents and incentivize the industries to employ resident laborers etc.
Objective of the "Assistance For Marble, IT & ITES, Electric Vehicles & Spare Parts, Toys Units And Semi-Conduct or Industries Sectors" Sub-scheme:
Under this Scheme, Subsidy will be provided to promote Marble, IT & ITeS, Electric Vehicles & Spare Parts, Toys Units and Semi-Conductor Industries Sectors.

Benefits
Credit Linked Interest Subsidy: 60% per annum limited to maximum of ₹50,00,000/- lakhs per annum for Five years OR for the period of repayment of loan whichever is earlier.
Capital Investment Subsidy:
For Small Units: 20% of Gross Fixed Capital Investment made will be reimbursed subject to maximum of ₹50,00,000/- per unit. 
For Large units in Semiconductor Sector: 15% of Gross Fixed Capital Investment made will be reimbursed subject to maximum of ₹7,50,00,000/-.
Eligibility
Should be a New Manufacturing/ Service units or Existing Manufacturing/ Service units which undertakes Expansion/ Diversification in MSME sector.
The unit should have commenced the commercial production between 20.05.2022 to 19.05.2027.
Unit should be located in the U.T. of Dadra and Nagar Haveli & Daman and Diu.
Enterprise shall have to apply at online portal within one year from the date of eligibility.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 1: Visit the Registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Provide the information in the respective input spaces and click on “Register”.
Step 3: Verify your email address using the verification link sent on your email (If Mail is Not Received Your Inbox. Please Check the Spam).
Step 4: Click the Link/URL in the received email or Paste Link/URL in browser's address bar to complete your Account Verification.
Step 5: Now enter “111111” as OTP to verify your mobile number. Mobile Number and Pin Successfully will be sent to the registered Email Address.
Step 6: On successful registration the login credentials will be received in the registered email.
Application Process:
Step 1: Visit the user Login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Enter registered Mobile Number along with PIN sent on your email then click “Log In”.
Step 3: On successful Log In, from the left side menu bar click on “Departments & Services” tab.
Step 4: Scroll down to “District Industries Centre DD & DNH” and click on the “Click Here” button to apply for “Investment Promotion Scheme : 2022 to 2027 (20 May 2022 to 19 May 2027)”. 
Step 5: “Common Application Form” will be open. Enter all the details in required input fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: After successful entry of the information, verify all the details and click on the “Submit” button to complete the application process.
Helpdesk:
District Industries Centre,
Contact No.: 0260-2260871 / 0260-2260310
E-mail Address: dic-dd@nic.in
For Technical Assistance on Single Window Portal (i.e. https://investdd.in)  Contact No. : 0260-2231885 / 2231886  E-Mail : ddegs-dd@nic.in
Documents Required
Corporate Identification Number (CIN) Document.
Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) Document.
Permanent Account Number (PAN) Document.*
Goods and Services Tax Number (GST) Document.
Other Registrations Document.
Copy of Udyam Registration /Industrial Entrepreneur Memorandum, as applicable.
Copy of Partnership Deed and Firm Registration Certificate in case of partnership concern or Memorandum & Articles of Association and Date of Incorporation Certificate in case of Public/Private Limited companies.
Copy of land purchase deed duly signed by the applicant (If the Enterprise is functioning in its own land).
Copy of registered lease agreement for a minimum period of 5 years from the date of commencement of commercial production (If the Enterprise is functioning in a leased land/ building).
Copy of sanction order from Electricity Department for power supply with copy of the latest bill.
Authorization letter.
Copy of Consent to Operate / Renewal from PCC, DNH & DD (as applicable for Notification No. PCC/DMN/13(PART VI)/2020-21/448 DATED 25/01/2021).
Copy of Factory licensee.
Undertaking.
