Small Industries Unit for Persons with Disabilities
Haryana
DisabilityLoanPwDSmall Unit
Details
The scheme "Small Industries Unit for Persons with Disabilities" is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, loan assistance of up to ₹25 lakhs is provided to persons with disabilities for establishing small industrial units focused on manufacturing, fabrication, and production. Permanent residents of Haryana, aged 18 or older, with a disability of 40% or more, is eligible to avail the benefits under this scheme.

Benefits
Under this scheme, loan assistance of up to ₹25,00,000/- is provided to differently-abled persons for setting up manufacturing, fabrication, and production units.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant should have a disability of at least 40%.
The applicant should be over 18 years old. For persons with mental retardation, the age requirement is relaxed to 14 years instead of the usual 18 years.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
1. Identity/Citizenship Proof (Any one of the following):
• Aadhaar Card
2. Age Proof (Any one of the following):
• Aadhaar Card
3. Resident Proof/Address Proof/Ownership Proof (Any one of the following):
• Ration Card
• Haryana Domicile Certificate
4. Caste/Religion Proof (Any one of the following):
• Caste Certificate for reserved category
5. Disability Proof (Any one of the following):
• Disability Certificate (Disability should not be less than 40%)
6. Photo of Applicant
7. Bank account details
8. Any other documents as required
