Divyang Boys/ Girls Marriage Incentive Grant
Uttarakhand
Divyang MarriageMarriage Grant
Details
“Divyang Youth / Girl Marriage Incentive Grant” scheme is a social security scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to a couple when a young woman or young man marries a Divyang (person with disability) partner.

Benefits
₹25,000/- to the beneficiaries.
Eligibility
For the Boys (Groom):
The youth must be citizens of India.
The youth must be permanent residents of Uttarakhand or have been domiciled there for at least five years.
The youth himself or his partner should belong to the Person with Disabilities (PWD) category having at least 40% disability.
The youth should not be convicted in a criminal case.
The youth must be at least 21 years and not more than 45 years at the time of marriage.
The youth should be married according to the prevailing social customs or a legal marriage has been solemnized by a competent court.
The youth should not be an income tax payer.
The youth should not have a pre-existing wife.
The youth should not be facing charges of molestation or any other criminal case.
For the Girls (Bride):
The girl must be a citizen of India.
The girl must be permanent residents of Uttarakhand or have been domiciled there for at least five years . 
The girl herself or her partner should belong to the Person with Disabilities (PWD) category having at least 40% disability.
The girl should not be convicted in a criminal case.
The girl must be at least 18 years and not more than 45 years at the time of marriage.
The girl should be married according to the prevailing social customs or a legal marriage has been solemnized by a competent court.
The girl should not be an income tax payer.
The youth should not have a pre-existing husband.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Prescribed format can be collected from the nearest office of the Assistant Social Welfare Officer.
Step 2: Fill the form properly and attach all the documents (attested, if required).
Step 3: Submit the form to the nearest office of the Assistant Social Welfare Officer.
Documents Required
Bride's and Groom’s Aadhar Card.
Disability Certificate.
Photocopy of Unique Disability ID Card (Click here to apply for UDID Card).
Certificate of Permanent Residence/ Proof of Residence in the State for 5 years.
Photocopy of Bank Account Statement.
Photocopy of marriage registration certificate.
Self-declaration of not being an income tax payer.
Self-declaration of not being involved in criminal activities.
Self-declaration of not having a pre-existing spouse.
