Grant Scheme for Marriage of Daughters of Destitute Widow
Uttarakhand
Destitute WidowFinancial AssistanceGirlsMarriage GrantScheduled CasteScheduled Tribe
Details
“Grant Scheme for Marriage of Daughters of Destitute Widow” scheme is a social security scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance for the marriage of the daughters of the destitute widows who are being given widow pension by the Social Welfare Department.

Benefits
₹50,000/- to the beneficiaries.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant should be a girl/woman.
The applicant should be a widow.
The applicant should be sanctioned for widow pension from the district probation office.
The monthly income of the applicant’s family should not exceed ₹4,000/-. 
Or,
The applicant should belong to the BPL (Below Poverty Level) category.
The bride (daughter of the applicant) should be between 18-45 to  years of age and the groom should be between 21-45 years of age.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit Official Website then click on “Online Application” in the Menu Bar.
Step 2: Click on “Submit New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step 4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information. 
Step 5: After saving the application form , the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant.
Step 6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords.
Step 7: Once you have successfully logged in, the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step 8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking Upload documents menu item .(File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB)
Step 9: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Step 10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the Print Application Form menu item.
Track Application:
Step 1: Visit Official Website then click on “Online Application” in the Menu Bar.
Step 2: Click on “Check application status” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step 4: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.
Note:
The applicant's name in the application form must be the same as the applicant ' s name in the Aadhaar card and the name in the passbook.
The applicant's information such as scheme, district, area, tehsil, block, panchayat, village, city, ward cannot be updated by the applicant.
Do not mention the applicant joint / loan bank account in the application form.
Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update.
Helpdesk:
Toll Free Number: 800 480 4236
What’s App Mobile Number: 63952288
Landline Number:
035-26742
035-267422
035-2669764
Email ID:
swditcell@gmail.com
itcell-ewd-uik@nic.in
Documents Required
Antyodaya Card/ BPL Certificate/ Income Certificate.
Residential Certificate.
Copy of marriage certificate issued by the Registration Office .
Certificate of date of birth of the bridegroom/bride (High School Certificate/Birth Certificate/Family Register/Aadhaar Card/Family Register)
Self-attested Ration Card.
Photo of the applicant. 
Aadhar card of the applicant.
Copy of Savings Bank account (should be seeded with Aadhaar).
Proof of receiving widow pension.
