Chief Minister's Self Employment Scheme
Sikkim
BPLEmpowermentLoanUnemployed
Details
The "Chief Minister's Self Employment Scheme" was launched by the Department of Personnel, and Reforms, Training, Public Grievances, Government of Sikkim. The scheme aims to provide loan to unemployed youth who belong below the poverty line. The Chief Minister's Self Employment Scheme shall be a link program for all those unemployed youth who are trained in the Constituency wise Livelihood schools across the State, irrespective of their educational qualification and age to start up self-employment ventures in business, service and industrial activities.

Benefits
Loans up to ₹3,00,000/- per individual.
Loans are interest-free for 2 years, followed by a 6% simple interest rate.

Note: In case of the death of a loan recipient, the co-applicant shall be liable for a refund of the outstanding loan. The co-applicant is liable for a refund of only the principal amount to be paid within a period not exceeding one year. 
Eligibility
The applicant should be unemployed. 
The applicant's age should be between 22 to 35 years. 
The applicant should have passed the 10th class.
The applicant's family annual income should not exceed ₹2,50,000/-. 
Only one member per family shall be considered for the benefit, except in the case of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Sikkim Industrial Development & Investment Corporation and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Sikkim Industrial Development & Investment Corporation.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the Sikkim Industrial Development & Investment Corporation to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Income Certificate (certified by the District Collector).
Affidavit of unemployment and no outstanding dues.
Project Feasibility Certification.
