Sanctioning of Tricycles of Orthopedically Challenged
Andhra Pradesh
OrthopedicallySocial WelfareTricycle
Details
The A.P. Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation, Andhra Pradesh, under its Action Plan 2017-18, aims to provide tricycles to orthopedically challenged individuals to enhance their mobility and independence. The tricycles are distributed by the Assistant Directors, Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled & Senior Citizens, and District Managers, A.P. Differently Abled & Senior Citizens Assistance Corporation.

Benefits
Distribution of Tricycles. 
Category I: Parent/Guardian income up to ₹15,000/- per month – full cost covered.
Category II: Parent/Guardian income from ₹15,001 to ₹20,000/- per month – half of the cost covered.
Category III: Parent/Guardian income above ₹20,000/- per month – full cost to be borne by the beneficiary.
Eligibility
The applicant should be orthopedically challenged. 
The applicant should not get the scheme benefit in the last 3 years.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The interested student needs to visit the official website. 
Step 02: Click on the "Online Applications" on the home page. 
Step 03: Select the category "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" 
Step 04: Now click on "Apply Online" respect to the scheme name.
Step 05: And confirm your registration. 

If applicant was not register earlier
Step 06: Answer the above registration question as "No". 
Step 07: Fill in your Aadhaar card name, Aadhaar number, Mobile number, email ID.
Step 08: Create a new password for this application.
Step 09: Click on "Register" After that get the registration number.

After the registration
Step 10: Click here to Login.
Step 11: Again, ask the same "Are you registered already: Yes/No Select "Yes".
Step 12: Enter email/mobile number and password.
Step 13: Click on "Login" and select the category again "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" .
Step 14: Fill out the application form for personal employment and disability detail.
Step 15: Click on "Submit".
Documents Required
Parents Income Certificate.
Saderam/Disability Certificate.
Any Other Document if Required. 
