Sanctioning of Daisy Players to Visually Challenged
Andhra Pradesh
Daisy PlayersPerson With DisabilitiesStudent
Details
The Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled & Senior Citizens launched the "Sanctioning of Daisy Players to Visually Challenged" scheme to distribute free daisy players to visually challenged students pursuing 9th Class to Degree as per the Action Plan 2017-18. The Assistant Directors and District Managers are instructed to follow these guidelines to ensure proper distribution. The application is accepted online for this scheme. 

Benefits
Distribution of Daisy Players.
Category I: Parent/Guardian income up to ₹15,000/- per month – full cost covered.
Category II: Parent/Guardian income from ₹15,001 to ₹20,000/- per month – half of the cost covered.
Category III: Parent/Guardian income above ₹20,000/- per month – full cost to be borne by the beneficiary.
Eligibility
The student's age should be between 16 to 23 years.
The student should be studying in 9th to degree courses. 
The student should be a native of Andhra Pradesh.
The student should be visually challenged. 
The laptop is sanctioned once in the lifetime of the student.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The interested student needs to visit the official website. 
Step 02: Click on the "Online Applications" on the home page. 
Step 03: Select the category "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" 
Step 04: Now click on "Apply Online" respect to the scheme name.
Step 05: And confirm your registration. 

If applicant was not register earlier
Step 06: Answer the above registration question as "No". 
Step 07: Fill in your Aadhaar card name, Aadhaar number, Mobile number, email ID.
Step 08: Create a new password for this application.
Step 09: Click on "Register" After that get the registration number.

After the registration
Step 10: Click here to Login.
Step 11: Again, ask the same "Are you registered already: Yes/No Select "Yes".
Step 12: Enter email/mobile number and password.
Step 13: Click on "Login" and select the category again "click here to apply for differently abled schemes" .
Step 14: Fill out the application form for personal employment and disability detail.
Step 15: Click on "Submit".
Documents Required
Bonafide Certificate (issued from the recognized School/College).
Parents Income Certificate.
Saderam/Disability Certificate.
Aadhar Card.
Mobile Number.
