Additional Pension to 100% Disabled Ex-Serviceman having No Child
Haryana
Additional PensionDisabilityEx-ServicemanPwDSainik
Details
The scheme "Additional Pension to 100% Disabled Ex-Serviceman having No Child" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, an additional amount of ₹100/- per month, in addition to the pension amount, is provided to 100% disabled ex-servicemen who were members of the Armed Forces and have been released from service due to 100% disability or permanent incapacity to work, provided the disability or incapacity is attributable to service. The additional amount is given only to those Ex-Servicemen who have no children, irrespective of rank, until death.

Benefits
An additional amount of ₹100 per month is given to 100% disabled ex-servicemen, irrespective of rank, until death.
Mode of Payment:
Each Secretary of District Sainik Board will make payment of additional pension on a quarterly basis by money order or in cash, as may be convenient.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be an Ex-serviceman. An ex-serviceman means a member of the Armed Forces who is released from service due to 100% disability or permanent incapacity to work and the disability or incapacity is attributable to service.
The applicant should have 100% disability.
The benefit is provided only to those Ex-Servicemen who have no children, irrespective of rank, until death.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined Affidavit form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 05: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
Copy of Ex-servicemen Identity Card
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Original Discharge Book of Ex-Serviceman
Domicile Certificate of Haryana
Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar Card
Applicant’s Photo ID Proof (Ration Card/Driving Licence/ Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
P.P.O
Disability Certificate
Aadhaar Card
Affidavit
Any other documents as required
