Marriage Grant for the Marriage of the Daughter of War Disabled Ex-Servicemen above 50% Disability
Haryana
DaughterDisabilityEx-ServicemanMarriagePwDWar Disabled
Details
The "Marriage Grant for the Marriage of the Daughter of War Disabled Ex-Servicemen above 50% Disability" scheme is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance of ₹21,000/- is provided for the marriage of each dependent daughter of war-disabled ex-servicemen whose disability has been assessed above 50%, for up to two daughters who are at least 18 years old.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹21,000/- is given for the marriage of each dependent daughter of war-disabled ex-servicemen whose disability has been assessed as over 50%.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be a war-disabled ex-serviceman with a disability assessed above 50%.
The daughter should be at least 18 years old.
The applicant can receive the benefit for up to two daughters only.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’.
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined documents form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 5: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
Copy of Identity Card of Ex-serviceman
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Original Discharge Book of Ex-serviceman (Complete)
Domicile Certificate of Haryana
Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar Card
Applicant’s Photo ID Proof (Ration Card/Driving Licence/Voter ID Card/PAN Card etc.)
P.P.O
Battle Casualty Report from Military Authority
Aadhaar Card
Age Proof- Matric Exam Certificate for Date of Birth verification (attested)
Wedding Card
Any other documents as required
