Financial Assistance to Para/Tetra/Hemi Plegic Ex-Servicemen
Haryana
Ex-ServicemanFinancial AssistanceHemi PlegicPara PlegicTetra Plegic
Details
The scheme "Financial Assistance to Para/Tetra/Hemi Plegic Ex-Serviceman" is implemented by the Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month shall be granted to Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, and Hemiplegic Ex-Servicemen who are bonafide residents of Haryana State and are not in receipt of any kind of financial assistance from any department of the Haryana Government. This financial assistance is admissible to eligible Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, and Hemiplegic Ex-Servicemen in addition to any disability pension from the Government of India, Ministry of Defence.

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance of ₹3,000/- per month is given to Para/Tetra/Hemi Plegic Ex-Serviceman, with an annual increase of ₹400/- w.e.f. 01.11.2017 every year in November.
Note: Subject to the condition that application/claim case is found in order financial assistance to the Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, or Hemiplegic Ex-Serviceman will be sanctioned with effect from the first day of the following month in which case is sanctioned by the competent sanctioning authority.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a bonafide resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be an Ex-Serviceman with paraplegia, tetraplegia, or hemiplegia.
In the case of Paraplegic, Tetraplegic, and Hemiplegic ex-servicemen of Haryana State financial assistance will be admissible to only those who are not fit to resettle in civil life on account of total incapacitation (100% disabled) and are penury.
In the case of a Hemiplegic Ex-Serviceman of Haryana State financial assistance will be admissible to only those who after 6 months of the attack of the deceased, do not recover and who are also declared 100% disabled on account of Hemiplegic disease by the Medical authorities even after 6 months of the attack of the disease.
The financial assistance will not be admissible to those paraplegia, tetraplegia, or hemiplegia ex-servicemen who are admitted in paraplegic homes run by the Government of India or the State Government and are covered by grants to paraplegic homes.
The applicant should not be in receipt of any kind of financial assistance from any department of the Haryana Government.
Note 1: The financial assistance is admissible to eligible paraplegia, tetraplegia, or hemiplegia ex-servicemen in addition to any disability pension from Govt. of India, Ministry of Defence.
Note 2: The old beneficiaries whose cases for grant of financial assistance have already been sanctioned prior to the issue of the guidelines shall continue to get the financial assistance at enhanced rates and they need not apply afresh. However, payment shall be discontinued with immediate effect who fail to submit their survival verification proofs every year from the revenue authorities.
Note 3: Payment of financial assistance to those beneficiaries shall also be stopped immediately who fail to submit their survival verification proofs every year from the revenue authorities in the month of April. 
Note 4: Every applicant shall have to produce a certificate issued by the concerned District Social Welfare Officer to the effect that the applicant is not getting any financial assistance/ Pension from the Social Justice & Empowerment Department of Haryana.
Note 5: If any beneficiary, after the sanction of the financial assistance under this scheme, is found drawing any type of financial assistance from any other Department of Haryana Government. He/she shall be permanently debarred from getting financial assistance under all schemes.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 1: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 2: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 3: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 4: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 1: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 2: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 3: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’.
Step 4: Now, you can search for the scheme and download the pre-defined documents form/template and you will need to upload the filled-in/signed form/template in the 'Attach Enclosures' screen.
Step 5: Click on ‘Proceed to Apply’ to fill out the application form. Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number- Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 6: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 7: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 8: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Note: All the applications received by the Zila Sainik Boards will be scrutinized at the level of Zila Sainik Boards itself and the applications found fit for grant of F.A. will be forwarded with all relevant documents to Rajya Sainik Board with clear recommendation of Secretary, Zila Sainik Board. 
Documents Required
Copy of Ex-servicemen Identity Card
Parivar Pehchan Patra
Aadhaar Card
Original Discharge Book of ESM (Complete)
Haryana Resident Certificate
Revenue Report verified from Tehsildar
Copy of Bank Passbook linked with Aadhaar
Disability/Medical Certificate indicating the %age of disability
Non-Employment Certificate
Self-Photo ID card (Ration Card/Driving License/ Voter ID Card/PAN card etc.)
Delay Report
NOC from the concerned District Social Welfare Department regarding not receiving any financial assistance except disability pension from Govt. of India
Affidavit for verifying the particulars given by the Ex‐Servicemen and that he/she is not admitted to any paraplegic homes run by Govt. of India and State Government and are run by grants to paraplegic homes
Any other documents as required
Note 1: The original Discharge book issued by the concerned Record Office of the Ex-servicemen will have to be submitted by the applicant for scrutiny of the case which will be returned through the respective Zila Sainik Board after scrutiny of the claim case.
Note 2: Every application for claiming financial assistance under this scheme will be supported by an affidavit prescribed form duly attested by First Class Magistrate containing all necessary information in support of the application.
Note 3: Every applicant under this scheme will submit a Medical Certificate issued by a Medical authority clearly stating the disease from which he is suffering with the percentage of disability as required.
