Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Best Contribution to promotion of Sports and Games
Odisha
AwardPromotion Of GamesPromotion Of Sports
Details
The “Biju Patnaik Sports Award for Best Contribution to Promotion of Sports and Games” is a category of award under the “Biju Patnaik Sports Award" Scheme. The scheme was launched by the Sports & Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to commemorate the yeoman service of late Biju Patnaik, the ex-Chief Minister of Odisha, towards the development of Sports & Games in the State by conferring the highest honor of the Government of Odisha in the field of Sports in his name. The award is given the individuals who have substantially contributed in various ways such as Sports Administration and sports Support Staff (other than Coaches) and also to the organizations that have substantially contributed by recruiting sportspersons, providing financial support to sportspersons for advanced coaching & International participation, and sponsorship support for the organization of National and international sporting events.
Objective:
To encourage the development of Sports and Games in the State.
To honor meritorious sportspersons who have made the State Proud.
To inspire and motivate young talents to excel in sports and games by emulating the seniors.
Sports Discipline: The sports disciplines recognized by the International Olympic Committee (I.O.C.), Indian Olympic Association (I.O.A.), Government of India (G.O.I.), Sports Authority of India (S.A.I.) and Government of Odisha (G.O.O.) including Sports Event for Persons with Disability.

Benefits
The award shall be presented every year subject to the availability of a suitable candidate, which will carry a cash award of ₹1,00,000/-.
A statue, a scroll of honor, and a blazer with a tie shall be given along with all the Cash Awards.
The Awardees shall be invited to receive the awards in person. They shall be given T.A. and D.A. at the rate admissible to a Grade 'A' Officer.
Note:
Canvassing for the award in any form is prohibited.
The award can also be given posthumously to the next of kin of the awardee (In the case of the applicant).
In case of selection of more than one person/organization for an award, the award money will be shared amongst the awardees.
It will not be binding on the Department of Sports & Youth Services to confer the award every year. In case of non-availability of suitable persons/organizations for the award, the award shall not be given for the respective year.
Eligibility
Both individuals/organizations will be eligible for this award.
Individual applicant:
The applicant should be a permanent resident of the State of Odisha or shall be staying at least for a period not less than 07 years.
The minimum age of the applicant should be 45 years as of 1st January of the year of the Award and must have substantially contributed in various ways such as Sports Administration and sports Support Staff (other than Coaches).
The applicant should not have been convicted of any criminal offence.
The award will be conferred on a person only once in his/her lifetime, pertaining to the concerned category.
The award can be given posthumously to the next of kin of the selected sportsperson.
Applicant Organization: 
The organization must have substantially contributed by recruiting sportspersons, providing financial support to sportspersons for advanced coaching & International participation, and sponsorship support for the organization of National and international sporting events.
Annulment Cancellation of Award:
The Award may be cancelled in case it is found that it has been obtained by fraudulent means.
In such event, the concerned person shall be asked to refund the award failing which steps will be taken to recover the involved cost from him/her with simple interest @ 5% per annum.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Visit the official website of the department and click on the "Biju Patnaik Sports Award" tab under the Sports Service category.
On clicking, sign in web page for the applicant will open. 
Click on "New Applicant" for registration of new applicant on the portal.
Once clicked, application form will open. Fill all the details and submit.
After registration, enter registration number on the sign in web page to apply for a scheme. 
Once application form is filled the Hard copy of the applications may be sent along with supporting documents to Director Sports, Sports and Youth Services Department, Kalinga Stadium Sports Complex Bhubaneswar, 751012. 
If the applicant is unable to upload any document or unable to fill details, he/she can send hard copies of applications along with necessary documents by Registered post/speed post/courier to the Director Sports, Sports and Youth Services Department, Govt of Odisha, Kalinga Stadium Sports Complex, Bhubaneswar,751012.
For latest updates about the scheme, the applicant may visit https://sports.odisha.gov.in/
Documents Required
For Individual:
Identity proof.
Three Passport size photographs.
Proof of Residence.
Proof of age.
The details of the achievement along with supporting documents/papers.
Adequate documentary evidence in support of the claim for the award.
For Organization:
Address Proof of Organization.
Organization's Registration Number.
The details of the achievement of the organization along with supporting documents/papers.
Adequate documentary evidence in support of the claim for the award.
