Grant of Financial Assistance for Performance of Marriage of Poor Brides Living Below Poverty Line
Puducherry
Below Poverty LineBPLBrideFinancial AsisstanceMarriagePoor
Details
The scheme "Grant of Financial Assistance for Performance of Marriage of Poor Brides Living Below Poverty Line" is a financial assistance scheme by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme aims to provide financial assistance to poor brides living below the poverty line to meet their marriage expenses. The assistance amount is ₹15,000, and it is granted for the first marriage of the bride. The scheme is implemented through the Department of Women and Child Development.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹25,000 for marriage expenses.
Eligibility
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹75,000 per annum.
The parents/guardian of the bride should be a citizen of India and a native of the Union Territory of Pondicherry by birth or by continuous residence of 5 years or more.
The assistance is payable only for the first marriage of the bride.
The marriage should be performed in accordance with the law in force on the date of marriage.
The assistance is given for the performance of the marriage of one daughter only.
The bride should have attained the age of 18 years, and the bridegroom 21 years on the date of marriage.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card of Bride.
2. Aadhaar Card father.
3. Aadhaar Card Mother.
4. Anganwadi Certificate (format).
5. Applicant photo.
6. Birth Certificate / TC of Bride.
7. Birth Certificate / TC of Bride Groom.
8. Certificate by MLA or Gazetted officer.
9. Form IV (format).
10. Gazetted Form.
11. Income Certificate (from the Revenue Department) (format).
12. Marriage Invitation.
13. Marriage Photo.
14. Marriage Registration Certificate (obtained from the registration department/Municipality/Commune Panchayat).
15. Ration Card.
16. Residence Certificate (from the Revenue Department) (format).
17. Undertaking Form (format).
18. Voter Card of Bride.
19. Voter Card of Father.
20. Voter Card of Mother.
21. Xerox Copy of the first page of the bank passbook of the Applicant.
22. Aadhaar Number.
23. Declaration (format).

In the absence of an Aadhaar Number; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with and ANY ONE of the following documents - 
Bank or Post office Passbook with Photo
Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card
Passport
Ration Card
Voter Identity Card
MGNREGA Card
Kisan Photo Passbook
Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
Any other document as specified by the Department.
