Swabhimaan Scheme
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
Adolescent GirlsLactating MothersPregnant WomenSablaSupplementary Nutrition
Details
The Union Territory of Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli has successfully launched the “Swabhimaan Scheme” scheme to tackle the problems of Malnutrition, Anemia, and other relevant issues.  The Hon'ble Prime Minister launched the scheme in Daman on 25th February 2018 and Hon'ble Home Minister in Dadra and Nagar Haveli on 20th April 2018. Under this scheme, a take-home ration (7.5kgs nutritious) is provided every month to Pregnant Women, Lactating Mothers, and Sabla (Adolescent Category girls in the age group of 11-14 years). 
       The nutritional status of women and children in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli is alarming. The UT Administration decided to wage war against undernutrition and came up with the "Swabhimaan Scheme” as one of the potent tools. The scheme builds on the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) being implemented by the government of India. One of the components of ICDS is the provision of supplementary nutrition to children, pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls. However, this nutrition was being provided as a cooked meal and the beneficiary had to visit the Anganwadi daily to avail of this benefit. Loss of wages or working time coupled with poor condition of Anganwadis, and poor attendance of Anganwadi workers led to low enrollment and poor uptake of supplementary nutrition.
Objectives:
Improve the nutritional status of pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls
Provide a monthly quota of supplementary nutrition to pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls on a fixed day of every month as a take-home ration.
Increase the number of beneficiaries availing of the scheme. 
Increase attendance of women in the Anganwadis where they can also avail of benefits of other schemes and be made aware of health and hygiene issues.
Reduction in stunting, Premature deliveries, and low-weight babies.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the beneficiaries are provided a monthly quota of supplementary nutrition to pregnant women, lactating mothers, and adolescent girls on a fixed day of every month as a take-home ration.
The items provided in the supplementary nutrition kits are procured from the market through an open and transparent process. Wheat and rice are availed from the normal quota of the Food Corporation of India.
Each item is neatly packed after quality inspection. All the items are then packed in an easy-to-carry jute bag for each beneficiary.
Monthly supplementary nutrition provided to a beneficiary every month is as under:
Item Quantity
Wheat 2Kg
Rice 2Kg
Peanuts 1Kg
Jaggery 250 gms
Tur Dal 250 gms
Roasted Peanuts 250 gms
Moong Dal 250 gms
Moong 500 gms
Oil (Fortified with Vitamin A&D) 250 ml
Salt (Double Fortified) 1Kg
Note 1: The bag has monthly entitlement of supplementary nutrition printed on it.
Note 2: Swabhiman scheme has been synchronized with the Village Health and Nutrition Day (VHND). On that day, along with other benefits and awareness sessions, the bag full of supplementary nutrition is handed over to the beneficiaries in the presence of elected representatives and village people to ensure transparency.
Eligibility
All the Pregnant Women, Lactating Mothers, and Adolescent Girls (Adolescent Category in the age group of 11-14 years) of the Union Territory of Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli are eligible to get the benefits of the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the beneficiaries need to visit the nearest Anganwadis Centre or contact the office of the Social Welfare Department, Union Territory of Daman & Diu, and Dadra & Nagar Haveli.
Step 2: The beneficiary may collect the enrollment form from Anganwadis Centre.
Step 3: The beneficiary should fill out the enrollment form and attach the essential documents with the form.
Step 4: After filling out the enrollment form, the beneficiary has to submit the form to the concerned persons in Anganwadis Centre.
Step 5: After successful enrollment, the beneficiary may get the benefits of the scheme.
Note: The beneficiaries are provided a monthly quota of supplementary nutrition as a take-home ration on a fixed day of every month.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
Proof of Age (for adolescent girls)
Proof of pregnancy (For pregnant women)
Child Birth certificate (If applicable)
