Assistance in Case of Accidents (O.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Odisha
Accidental BenefitBuilding WorkerConstruction WorkerDisabilityHospitalizationLabour
Details
The “Assistance in Case of Accidents” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, financial assistance shall be provided to the nominee of a registered member in the event of an accident causing the member to suffer a permanent total disability, loss of one limb or eye, or permanent disability without losing two limbs or eyes.

Benefits
Permanent total disability due to accident: ₹1,50,000/-
Loss of one limb/ eye: ₹80,000/-
Permanent disability without loss of two limbs/ eyes: ₹40,000/-
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a nominee of a deceased registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Odisha.
The member should have permanent disability/ lost one limb or eye/ permanent disability without the loss of two limbs or eyes due to an accident.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family & Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.
Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Aadhaar Linked Bank Passbook Front Page Copy (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Passport Size Photo (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Aadhaar Card (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Signature of Applicant (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Employment certificate (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Xerox copy of the Registration Certificate of the beneficiary duly attested by DLO/ ALO/ RLI of the concerned district.
Xerox copy of updated annual contribution receipt to be verified by the DLO/ ALO/ RLI of the concerned district.
Essentiality Certificate to be filled completely and to be signed not below the rank of Assistant Surgeon of Government Hospital.
All original Bills should be verified by the treating doctor and it should be signed on the face of the bills with a seal.
Original OPD Report /Discharge Certificate from the hospital duly signed by the Doctor.
The detailed list of medicines, laboratory tests, investigations, no doctor's visit etc.
Whether the construction workers have been covered under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY).
Referral form for admission/ OPD treatment from nearby Government Hospital for treatment/admission.
Non-availability certificate for treatment /admission in nearby Government Hospital, if applicable.
Copy of the first page of Bank pass book indicating Bank name, IFSC Code and applicant's account number clearly visible and verified by concerned DLO/ ALO/ RLI.
Note: On loss of original documents, photocopies duly signed by Medical Authority would be entertained subject to submission of the affidavit.
