Niji Talabon Ka Jirnoddhar Ki Yojana
Bihar
Fish FarmerPondProductivity
Details
The "Niji Talabon Ka Jirnoddhar Ki Yojana" was launched by the Animal and Fisheries Resources Department, Government of Bihar. The scheme specifically allocates resources for extremely backward castes, scheduled castes, and scheduled tribes, ensuring inclusive growth and support for marginalized communities. Under the scheme, the target is to renovate 150.00 hectares of private ponds. 

Objectives:
Increase Water Holding Capacity: Enhance the water holding capacity of private ponds to boost fish productivity and production.
Economic Benefits for Fish Farmers: Provide benefits to private fish farmers through the expansion/renovation of their ponds.

Model of Pond Restoration:
Model-1: Renovation of old private ponds (not renovated under any government scheme in the last five years).
Model-2: Renovation of private ponds constructed under government schemes (benefits payable after five years of construction).

Benefits
Renovation of 150 hectares of private ponds with the following category-specific targets:
Other category beneficiaries: 86 hectares
Extremely backward castes: 27 hectares
Scheduled castes: 30 hectares
Scheduled tribes: 7 hectares

Subsidy Details:
Unit cost: ₹ 6,00,000/- per hectare.
Subsidy: 30% for other categories, 40% for extremely backward castes/scheduled castes/tribes.
NOTE: Subsidy disbursement in two installments based on completion of work.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a fish farmer.
The applicant should be private pond owners or lessees.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply". 
Step-02: Select the "Registration for Fisheries Schemes"
Step-03: Select the category: Individual and complete all basic details of the applicant for registration, including category, caste, applicant name, date of birth, address, bank details, etc.
Step-04: Enter a valid 10-digit mobile number and click to send OTP.
Step-05: An OTP will be sent to the provided mobile number.
Step-06: Enter the OTP; after verification of the OTP, you will receive a Registration Number and Password.
Step-07: Click on the "Login" and enter the Registration Number and Password

Application Form Filling Process:
Step-01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the "Applications are being invited for all the schemes of the financial year (2024-25), click here to apply".
Step-02: Click "If your already register, login here". 
Step-03: Select "Scheme name" under the "Matsya Yojana" option on the top menu.
Step-04: Applicant need to provide the following details :
Details of individual (applicant/group leader)
Permanent address
Bank account details
Land/pond details
Step-05: Upload the required documents.
Step-06: Click on the submit button as well print the application form and submit it to the District Fisheries Office along with attachments. 

Note: Download the Affidavit form and Consent form also attached with the application. 
Documents Required
Aadhar Card/Ration Card/Voter ID Card.
Two Passport-size Photographs (self-attested).
Clear Photograph of the Proposed Pond with a Distinguishable Landmark.
Land Ownership Certificate or Lease Agreement (minimum 9 years for leased land).
Updated Revenue Receipt.
Bank Account Number, Branch, IFSC code Details.
Caste Certificate for extremely backward castes/scheduled castes/scheduled tribes.
Affidavit stating that the pond has not been renovated under any government scheme in the last five years.
Affidavit for ponds damaged by natural disasters, if applicable.
Lease Agreement (on ₹ 1000/- non-judicial stamp) for Leased Ponds.
Land Map of the Pond Area.
