Assistance for Funeral Expenses (O.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Odisha
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerDeathFuneral ExpensesLabour
Details
The “Assistance for Funeral Expenses” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, financial assistance shall be provided to the nominee of each deceased registered member to meet their funeral expenses.

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance: ₹5,000/-.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a nominee of a deceased registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of Odisha.
The member should have lost his/her life due to death.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family & Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.
Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Aadhaar Linked Bank Passbook Front Page Copy (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Passport Size Photo (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Aadhaar Card (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Signature of Applicant (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Employment certificate (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Registration ID card of the deceased member.
Proof of deposit of annual contribution.
Death Certificate of the deceased member (From any Govt. Medical Officer not below the rank of Asst. Surgeon).
Dependent/ Heirship Certificate of the applicant.
Any other document as required.
Note: In case more than one nominee, the applicant is required to submit an affidavit of other nominees towards payment of benefit to the applicant.
