Marriage Assistance (O.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Odisha
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourMarriageWomen
Details
The “Marriage Assistance” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide marriage benefit to the unmarried female member on her marriage or marriage of two unmarried girl children who are of above 18 years of age subject to a minimum of one year as registered beneficiary. 

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance: ₹50,000/-.
Note: 
Assistance shall be given for a maximum of two children.
In case both spouses are registered beneficiaries, the benefit will be extended to one spouse only.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be female.
The applicant should be a registered member of the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board or an unmarried girl child aged above 18 years of the member.
The member should be registered for a period of one year or more under the board.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family & Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.
Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Aadhaar Linked Bank Passbook Front Page Copy (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Passport Size Photo (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Aadhaar Card (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Signature of Applicant (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Employment certificate (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Photograph of the Couple.
Copy of the Money Receipt of Annual Contribution.
Copy of the Marriage Certificate issued by the concerned Authority or Certificate by Sarpanch/ Chairman of Panchayat Samiti/ Zilla Parishad Member/ Municipal Counsellor/ Corporator/ Executive Officer of Local Bodies regarding solemnization of the marriage.
An undertaking from the applicant ( Stating that either his/her spouse is not a registered beneficiary under the Board or if registered, his/her spouse has not applied for such benefit separately. In case, the spouse is a registered beneficiary, the registration number of the spouse should be mentioned).
Any other documents if required.
