Digital J&K Internship Scheme
Jammu and Kashmir
Financial AssistanceOpportunityStudent
Details
The "Digital J&K Internship Scheme" was launched by the J&K e-Governance Agency of the Information Technology Department. An internship is an opportunity for the students to secure first-hand and practical work experience. It also aims at active participation in the learning process through experimentation and putting into practice the knowledge acquired in the studies.

Duration of Internship:
The minimum duration of the internship shall be 03 months. 

Place of Internship:
The internship will be offered at Jammu and Kashmir.

Benefits
Stipend:
A token stipend of ₹10,000/- per month would be paid to an Intern, subject to satisfactory performance. 

Certificate of Internship:
The J&K e-Governance Agency will issue certificates to the Interns upon the completion of the internship. 
Eligibility
The student should be studying at recognized universities in India.
The student should have secured at least 60% marks in the last held degree or pursuing B.E/B.Tech/M.E/M.Tech (Computer Science & Engineering (CSE)/Computer Science (CS)/ IT/ Electronics & Communications (EC)/) M.Sc. (CS/IT/) MCA/DOEACC ‘B’ level. 
Students in the last semester or the final year will be eligible to apply. 
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 01: The applicant visits the official website and clicks the notification to apply. 
Step 02: Click on "New User" and fill in the basic details Name, Email ID, Mobile Number.
Step 03: Generate the Password and enter the Captcha. 

Application Process:
Step 01: Log in to the profile and enter your email ID and password
Step 02: Click the Apply internship scheme and enter the address, qualification, reference detail
Step 03: Upload the domicile certificate, signature, resume, etc.
Step 04: Click on the "Submit" button and your application number will be generated. 
Documents Required
Passport-size Photo.
Applicant Signature.
Domicile Certificate.
Resume.
