Madhu Babu Pension Yojana
Odisha
DisabilityPensionSocial SecurityWidow
Details
"Madhu Babu Pension Yojana" under the Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities Department, Government Of Odisha is a social welfare scheme designed to provide financial assistance to elderly citizens, widows who are economically weaker. All the beneficiaries being covered under the "State Old Age Pension Scheme, 1989" and the "Orissa Disability Pension Scheme, 1985" in the State are covered under this scheme. The scheme is applicable to person with benchmark disability (irrespective of age) and unable to do normal work due to his/her deformity or any other disability notified under the Rights of Persons with Disability Act. 

Benefits
For the beneficiary who is between 60-79 years of age, the pension would be ₹ 500/- per month.
For the beneficiary who is 80 Years and Above in age, the pension would be ₹ 700/- per month.
The pension will be disbursed on the 15th of every month, on "JANA SEWA DlWAS" in the denomination of ₹ 100/-.
Eligibility
The applicant is a permanent resident/domicile of Odisha since 20 years.
The applicant should not been convicted of any criminal offence involving moral turpitude.
The applicant should qualify for one of the following - 
The age of the applicant is 60 years and above.
The applicant is a widow.
The applicant is a leprosy patient with visible signs of deformity.
The applicant is a person of 5 years of age or, above and unable to do normal work due to his/her deformity or disability being blind or, orthopedically handicapped, mentally retarded, with cerebral palsy.
The applicant is the widow of an AIDS patient.
The applicant is an AIDS patient identified by the State / District AIDS Control Society (irrespective of income as under Rule 6 (b).
The applicant is an unmarried woman belonging to BPL category.
The applicant has family income from all sources not exceeding ₹ 24,000/- per annum.
The applicant is not in receipt of any other pension from the union Government or the state government or any organization aided by either Government.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Visit the department official website to apply for the scheme.
Choose scheme tab, select scheme name "Madhu Babu Pension Yojana". Click Procced.
Online application form will open.
Upload documents including Income certificate, bank passbook copy.
Submit the application form. 
Documents Required
Aadhar card scan copy.
Three identical attested copies of recent passport-size photographs (for all categories of MBP).
Certificate regarding total annual family income from the concerned Tahasildar (for all, except WP-AIDS / DP-AIDS)
Disability Certificate issued by the competent authority with due mention of the latest percentage of disability or, such for the applicants of pension due to disability(for DP category)
Medical Certificate regarding suffering from Leprosy and loss of limbs and being unable to do normal works from the competent authority / Medical Officer Local P.H.C. / Hospital duly countersigned by the concerned Block Development Officer / Tahasildar (for CLP).
Recommendation from Orissa State AIDS Control Society (for DP-AIDS)
Proof of age in respect of the applicant (for OAP / DP categories) (Electoral Roll of the Gram Panchayat / N.A.C./ Municipality OR School Leaving Certificate OR Birth Registration Certificate).
NOTE: If none of the above are available/dependable the age certificate from a Medical Officer not below the rank of an Assistant Surgeon of the nearest P.H.C./ Hospital may be obtained.
