Bhima Bhoi Bhinnakshyama Samarthya Abhiyan
Odisha
Empowerment Of Persons With DisabilitiesEqual OpportunitiesInclusivenessSocio-economic Rehabilitation
Details
"Bhima Bhoi Bhinnakshyama Samarthya Abhiyan (BBSA)" is a umbrella scheme under the Department of the Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (SSEPD) Department, Government of Odisha. The aim of the scheme is to promote inclusivity and empowerment among marginalized communities, particularly focusing on those with disabilities and other forms of social disadvantage. To ensure equitable justice for PwDs the BBSA scheme will focus on the following broad objectives:
To create an enabling environment to ensure equal opportunities, equity, social justice & empowerment of persons with disabilities with focus on grass root PwD population.
To encourage voluntary action and participation of all stake holders for ensuring effective implementation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
To expand outreach activities for rehabilitation of PwDs and create facilities for providing high-tech rehabilitation services.
To promote individual and group initiatives by PwDs for employment, selfemployment and other socio-educational services.
To strengthen the existing implementation machinery and create facilities for coverage of all uncovered areas of the state for ensuring complete coverage of PwDs. 
The scheme is designed to cater to the needs of the PwDs for providing rehabilitation support and social security.

Benefits
Persons with Disabilities covered under the new Act include the following categories:
Acid Attack Victim,
Autism Spectrum Disorder,
Blindness,
Cerebral Palsy,
Chronic Neurological Conditions,
Dwarfism,
Hemophilia,
Hearing Impairment,
Intellectual Disability,
Leprosy Cured Person,
Locomotor Disability,
Low-Vision,
Mental Illness,
Muscular Dystrophy,
Multiple Sclerosis,
Parkinson’s Disease,
Specific Learning Disabilities,
Speech and Language Disability,
Thalassemia,
Sickle Cell Disease, and
Multiple Disabilities
Eligibility
The applicants must be bona fide resident of Odisha.
A Person with Disability (PWD) irrespective of age and category of disability may avail all or any of services as envisaged provided he/she has not availed the same previously.
Application Process
Offline
The registration of the candidates will be done as per the categories of the disabilities, such as, visually impaired, speech/hearing impaired, orthopedically handicapped, leprosy cured persons, mentally retarded and mentally ill, CP, Autism and Multiple Disabilities etc. 
The application form for creating the Unique Disability ID is enclosed in Annexure-A in the detailed guidelines.
The registered beneficiary will move with prescribed application to the Assessment/ Distribution Counters for evaluation of disabilities and requirement of aids/appliances and other services by medical/ rehabilitation professionals. 
If the Application is found to be suitable for certification (i.e. with 40% or above disabilities), it will be referred to photo counter, Medical Counter, ID card/Pass Book Counter successively.
In case of the registered PwD having prior valid disability certificate, they need not be moved to Medical Examination counter. But their cases may be evaluated for requirement of aids/appliance & other services, if any, in the Assessment Counter.
Documents Required
The Bhima Bhoi Bhinnakshyama Samarthya Abhiyan scheme, would require a set of documents for various types of applications, such as for educational grants, cultural programs, or community initiatives. 
For Individuals or Community Groups:
Proof of Identity:
Aadhar Card
Voter ID
Passport
Driving License
Proof of Address:
Utility Bill (Electricity, Water, Gas)
Bank Statement
Rent Agreement
Application Form:
Educational Documents (if applicable):
Certificates or mark sheets related to educational achievements.
Proof of Social or Economic Status (if applicable):
Income Certificate
Caste Certificate
Disability Certificate (if applying for disability benefits)
Project Proposal or Plan (for community projects or cultural events):
