Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme- Chhattisgarh
Chhattisgarh
BPLIndira GandhiPensionWidow
Details
The scheme "Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme" is implemented by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to widows aged 40 to 79 years who are living Below the Poverty Line (BPL) to support them in living a respectful life. This scheme is centrally sponsored.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive a monthly pension of ₹500/-, (Central contribution- ₹300/-, State Contribution- ₹200/-).
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
2. The applicant should be a widow.
3. The widow’s age should be between 40 and 79 years.
4. The widow's name should be included in the list of families living Below Poverty Line.
5. The widow should not be receiving pension benefits from any other Central or State Government pension scheme.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 1: Go to the eDistrict Chhattisgarh Portal.
Step 2: Click on "Citizen Login".
Step 3: If you are a new user, select "New Registration".
Step 4: Enter your registration details and click "Submit".
Step 5: Your Registration Summary will be displayed, and you will receive your password on your registered mobile number.
Application Process:
Step 1: Go to the eDistrict Chhattisgarh Portal.
Step 2: Click on ‘Login’ or "Citizen Login".
Step 3: Enter your username and password, and then click ‘Login’.
Step 4: After logging in, click on "My Service" and search for the scheme to apply for.
Step 5: Click on ‘Apply Online’ and fill in all required details, upload necessary documents, and click ‘Submit.’
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof 
Domicile certificate of Chhattisgarh (Issued by a Gazetted Officer, Sarpanch or Councillor)
Death certificate of husband
Proof of age (Doctor's certificate, Birth Certificate, Certificate issued by an Administrator, Sarpanch, or Mayor, school certificate, etc.)
Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card/related documents
Address proof
Bank Passbook/Post Office Account Passbook
Any other documents as required
