Danveer Bhamashah Honors- Chhattisgarh
Chhattisgarh
AwardBhamashahCharityPatriotismSocial Service
Details
The scheme "Danveer Bhamashah Honors" is implemented by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh, aims to encourage the spirit of charity, harmony, patriotism, sacrifice, and cultural devotion among all sections of the society in the state. The state government has decided to give it to encourage the contributions of outstanding individuals/organizations that provide charity, hospitality, and exemplary assistance in the state of Chhattisgarh.
Objectives:
The purpose of this honor is to encourage patriotism, sacrifice, and cultural devotion in the state through the spirit of charity and harmony among all sections of the society. Along with this, public participation has to be promoted in permanent social service works so that a good environment of social consciousness can develop in the state. This honor will be given to an outstanding person/organization for such remarkable work.

Benefits
An award amount of ₹1,00,000/- along with a certificate of appreciation will be granted to the recipient.
Note: The person/officer of the organization selected for the award will be eligible to receive a traveling allowance equivalent to a Grade-A level officer of the government along with an assistant to attend the function.
Eligibility
The applicant/organization should be a resident of/established in Chhattisgarh.
There should be a long-term involvement in permanent works of charity, patriotism, and social service within the state.
The past work of the individual/organization should be outstanding and continuously active at present in that area. Result-oriented continuity is essential.
The contribution of the individual/organization should reflect a wider impact in the respective field of work. It should be clearly reflected to what extent and how intensively innovation, i.e. new methods and new areas have been adopted by moving away from the traditional methods.
The entry of an organization or individual whose official is a member of that year's award jury will not be considered.
An organization or individual who has received an award in the field of charity in the last 5 years will also be eligible for this award.
The assessment for the award will consider both the past and present work of the individual/organization.
Government/semi-government institutions or their employees will not be eligible for the honor.
Only continuous upliftment work, free from conflicts and supported by proper evidence, will be considered.
Note 1: If the government or the jury receives the proposal through any other means, the decision for the award can be taken after obtaining an opinion from the concerned district as per requirement.
Note 2: In case the entry received by any organization/person is not selected, the original entry can be returned to the concerned organization/person through the district administration.
Note 3: Normally, only one person or organization will be selected for the award. However, if the jury deems it necessary, two persons or organizations may be selected, and the prize money will be divided equally between them.
Note 4: Not being selected once will not mean that the work of the concerned person/organization is not award-worthy. Individuals/institutions fulfilling the prescribed criteria will be able to submit entries again in subsequent years.
Application Process
Offline
Application Procedure:
The application should be submitted in the prescribed format to the Joint/Deputy Director, Social Welfare Department at the District Office with all details.
Selection Process:
On the proposals received from the recommendation of the District Collector regarding the continuous action and unquestionable work of the person/organization, the award is given to a person or organization by the decision of the State Level Jury.
Address for Sending Applications:
Joint Director/Deputy Director, Social Welfare Department, concerned district.
Announcement of Award:
The jury will submit its decision confidentially to the state government and the state government will formally announce the person/organization selected for the honour. 
Award Distribution Ceremony:
The award distribution ceremony will be organized by the government at a fixed place and date. 
Documents Required
Complete introduction of the person/organization.
Detailed information about the work done in the field of charity and nationalism.
Details of any other award, if any, received.
If any report has been published regarding excellent work, then its details and a photocopy of the published report.
Photocopies/true copies of comments made by eminent persons and newspapers and magazines etc. regarding the excellent work done in the field of charity and nationalism.
Recommendation of the District President regarding the continuous and undisputed functioning of the institution/person.
No objection regarding direct assessment of the works of the institution/individual by the jury or any of its members or authorized person.
In case of selection, written consent of the person/organization to receive the award.
Any subsequent correspondence other than the facts/information contained in the entry will not be considered for the prize.
Any other documents as required
