Asangathit Karmakaar Silai Machine Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
BusinessEmpowermentSewing Machine
Details
The Asangathit Karmakaar Silai Machine Sahayata Yojana (Unorganized Workers Sewing Machine Assistance Scheme) is a government scheme in Chhattisgarh State that provides sewing machines. The objective of this scheme is to promote unorganized workers in their businesses and make them self-reliant. 

Benefits
Under the scheme, sewing machines will be supplied every year to the registered unorganized women workers of the state.
Eligibility
Women who work in construction and are registered with the labor board/department.
Women between the ages of 18 and 50 who sew, embroider, or weave (tailor) clothes, are employed by an employer or have their own business, and earn a living for themselves and their families, in any district of the state.
Women who have not received a sewing machine or an amount equal to the value of a sewing machine under any other scheme run by the state government.
Women who have not received benefits under the Chief Minister Cycle Assistance Scheme run by the labor board/department.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Step-1. Applicant have to visit the official labour website of Chhattisgarh State.
Step-2. Click on apply now under the Unorganized worder board option.
Step-3. Now applicant have to provide the below detail.
District,
Name of the Beneficiary.
Father's / Husband's name.
Pre-registration no. 
New registration no.
And click on check the details
Step-4. Now select the scheme name here. 
Step-5. Fill out the online form. 
Step-6. Upload required documents.
Labor registration card.
Age certificate.
Bank passbook photocopy.
Income certificate.
Step-7. Click on submit.
Step-8. Note the application number.

Trace the Application Status
Step-1. Applicant have to visit the official labour website of Chhattisgarh State.
Step-2. Click on "Check the application status" 
under the Unorganized worder board option.
Step-3. Select the scheme name.
Step-4. Enter the application number. 
Step-5. Click on search.
Documents Required
Labor registration card.
Age certificate.
Bank passbook photocopy.
Income certificate.
