Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana
Goa
CashlessGoaHealth CoverageInsurance
Details
To facilitate and take medical services to the next level, the State of Goa envisaged the present scheme to provide its people with quality medical care and treatment of diseases, hospitalization, and surgery through government and private hospitals.

Benefits
The benefit under this scheme shall be provided on a cashless basis to the beneficiaries, up to the limit of their annual coverage, and shall be as under:
The insurance cover shall be up to ₹2,50,000/- per annum for a family of three or fewer members and up to ₹4,00,000/- for a family of four or more members. Under no case, the claim would exceed ₹4,00,000/- annually.
The insurance benefit can be availed of individually or collectively by members of the family.
An individual is free to take higher coverage from the insurance company by paying higher premiums, without having any impact on Government policy and facilities.
The facilities for 447 procedures shall be covered under the scheme.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a resident of the state of Goa.
The applicant must have resided in Goa continuously for a minimum of five years or more.
Application Process
Offline
Online
The beneficiary may approach the Empanelled Health Care Provider (EHCP) as per the list provided on the website. After consulting the doctor, if the surgery is covered under the scheme and is available at the said EHCP, the patient can approach the DDSSY Sahayak at the hospital with the card, and the Sahayak will raise a request for pre-authorization with the ISA pre-authorization doctor.  Or
Alternatively, if the beneficiary is aware of what the procedure is, he/she can check the website to find out at which EHCP the required procedure is performed and visit the hospital of his/her choice as per the list of EHCPs empaneled for the said procedure.

Note: Officer to be contacted: 

Sr. No. Name & address of the Nodal Officer Designation Contact No.
1 Dr. Yogesh Potdar, Directorate of Health Services, Campal Panaji Medical Management & Quality Manager 0832-2225646, Extn. 256, 7447797582
2 Dr. Ralph Araujo, MD India Health Insurance TPA Pvt. Ltd., B-F/3, 1st Floor, Campal Trade Centre, Behind Military Hospital, Panaji Sr. Manager 9325963691
3 Shri. Sagar Jaiwar, Goa Electronics Ltd., Ground Floor, Shrama Shakti Bhavan, Patto Plaza, EDC Complex, Panaji Asst. Manager (IT), Goa Electronics Ltd. 8411004910
Documents Required
Aadhar Card/Enrolment Acknowledgement Slip of every family member above 5 years (Compulsory).
Residence Proof of eligibility person: passport, residence certificate/Election card/Driving license issued a minimum of 5 years ago in Goa.
For OBC of non-creamy layer: Caste Certificate issued by Deputy Collector along with income certificate showing income less than ₹6,00,000/- per annum.
For SC/ST: Cast certificate issued by the Director of Tribal Welfare/ Deputy Collector.
For Differently abled eligible person: Disability certificate issued by Medical board.
Ration card to define family. In case of Ration card is not available all the below-mentioned documents are to be enclosed.
For Spouse: Marriage Certificate.
For dependent child: Birth certificate/school leaving certificate of dependent child or children of the eligible person.
For the dependent parent: Declaration stating the dependent parent/(s) are not employed.
