Scheme for Adolescent Girls- Bihar
Bihar
AdolescentAnganwadiGirlNutritional ItemsTake-home Ration
Details
The scheme "Scheme for Adolescent Girls" has been implemented in Bihar since 2011 through the Anganwadi centers under the Integrated Child Development Project (ICDS). Under this scheme, adolescent girls aged 11 to 14 years who are not attending school receive a monthly take-home ration along with skill development training. It is a centrally sponsored scheme with a funding ratio of 50:50 between the Central and State governments.
The main objective of the scheme is to improve the level of health, nutrition, and education by providing support to adolescent girls so that they can become self-reliant and aware. The objective of this scheme is as follows:-
To assist in self-development and empowerment of adolescent girls.
To improve their nutrition and health status.
To raise awareness about health, hygiene, and nutrition.
To reintegrate out-of-school adolescent girls into the formal education system or develop alternative education/skills.
To develop their home-based skills and life skills.
To provide information and guidance about available public services such as Primary Health Centres, Rural Hospitals/Community Health Centres, Post Offices, Banks, Police Stations, etc.

Benefits
1. Under this scheme, beneficiaries receive a monthly take-home ration (THR) along with skill development training.
2. The following benefits are provided to beneficiaries under both nutritional and non-nutritional items:
Nutritional items: Rice, eggs, and soybeans are provided as THR to adolescent girls. Nutritious items are provided for 25 days each month.
Non-nutritional items: These include Iron Folic Acid supplements, comprehensive health check-ups and referral services, health and nutrition education, reintegration of out-of-school adolescent girls into the formal education system or mainstreaming through alternative education/skills development, life skills education, home management training, and counseling/guidance for accessing public services.
Eligibility
The beneficiary should be a resident of Bihar.
The beneficiary should be an adolescent girl aged between 11 and 14 years.
The beneficiary should not be currently attending school.
Application Process
Offline
To avail benefits under this scheme, beneficiaries should register their names at their nearest Anganwadi Center.
Complaints & Grievance Redressal:
Complaints and appeals related to various schemes under this program can be filed with the Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the sub-division level, the District Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the district level, and the Departmental Public Grievance Redressal Officer at the department level. Apart from this, issues can be registered with the Child Development Project Officer at the project level, the District Program Officer/District Officer at the district level, the Divisional Commissioner at the divisional level, and the Director, ICDS, as well as the Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary/Secretary of the Social Welfare Department at the state level. Complaints can be submitted in writing or communicated over the telephone.
Documents Required
Identity proof of applicant i.e. Aadhaar Card
Proof of age i.e. Birth certificate
Address proof
Any additional documents as required
