Supply of Insulated Boxes
Goa
Financial AssistanceFishFishermenMarketingSubsidy
Details
“Supply of Insulated Boxes” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, subsidy to the extent of 75% of the cost for the purchase of an insulated box of at least 50 liters capacity. The applications are accepted only in offline mode. Only the fisherman engaged in selling and marketing fish, fishing at sea with a canoe, and fishing at sea with a mechanized fishing vessel with up to 6-cylinder engines are eligible to apply to this scheme.

Benefits
For the Beneficiary Engaged in Selling/Marketing Fish
One insulated box of 50 liters capacity will be entitled to a subsidy to the extent of 75% of the cost limited to ₹ 1,500/-.
For the Beneficiary Engaged in Fishing at Sea With a Canoe
One insulated box of 100 liters and one box of 220 liters capacity and subsidy to the extent of 75% of the cost limited to ₹ 7,000/- respectively.
For the Beneficiary Engaged in Fishing at Sea With a Mechanized Fishing Vessel Upto 6 Cylinder Engine
One insulated box of 220 liters and one insulated box of 400 liters capacity and subsidy to the extent of 75% of the cost limited to ₹ 15,000/- respectively.
Eligibility
The applicant should be one of the following - 
A fisherman engaged in selling and marketing fish.
A fisherman engaged in fishing at sea with a canoe.
A fisherman engaged in fishing at sea with a mechanized fishing vessel with up to 6-cylinder engines.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
For 400 & 220 Litres Capacity Insulated Boxes for Fishing Vessels:
   a) Copy of VRC (Vessel Registration Certificate) of Fishing Vessel.
   b) Latest copy of Updated Fishing License/Certificate.
   c) Latest copy of Updated Net License Book.
   d) Copy of Aadhaar Card.
For 100 & 220 Litres Capacity Insulated Boxes for Fishing Canoes:
   a) Copy of VRC (Vessel Registration Certificate) of Fishing Vessel.
   b) Latest copy of Updated Fishing License/Certificate.
   c) Latest copy of Updated Net License Book.
   d) Copy of Aadhaar Card.
For 50 Litres Capacity Insulated Boxes for Active Fish Sellers:
   a) Certificate from Village Panchayat/Municipality indicating that the applicant is actively engaged in the retail sale of fish.
   b) Copy of Aadhaar Card.
