Assistance to Traditional Pottery Makers
Kerala
Financial AssistanceOBCPotteryPottery Worker
Details
Certain communities among the Other Backward Classes are engaged in traditional occupations including pottery. Traditional pottery workers are following conventional methods for manufacturing products and face tough competition in the market. In this circumstance, this traditional industry has to be revived by imparting training to pottery workers on modern methods/techniques of production and also by providing financial assistance to mechanize and modernize the sector.
In view of the above, the scheme “Assistance to Traditional Pottery Makers” is launched by the Backword Classes Development Department, Government of Kerala. Under the scheme, financial assistance will be provided to Traditional Pottery makers belonging to the state OBC category for the purchase of modern machinery for job modernization.

Benefits
The financial assistance of ₹25,000/- will be provided to the Traditional Pottery Makers for upgrading the occupation and purchasing machinery.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a permanent resident of the Kerala State.
2. The applicant should belong to the State Backward Community of Kerala State.
3. The applicant should be currently engaged in a traditional pottery-making occupation.
4. The annual family income of the applicant should be ₹1,00,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
The completely filled Application Form along with all the relevant documents should be submitted before the Regional Deputy Director at the following addresses:
Applicants From Trivandrum to Trissur:
Regional Deputy Director, Backward Classes Development Department
Civil station, Kakkanad, Ernakulam- 682030, Kerala
Applicants From Palakkad to Kasargode:
Regional Deputy Director, Backward Classes Development Department
Civil Station, Kozhikode- 673020, Kerala
Documents Required
1. Copy of the Identity proof
2. Copy of Aadhaar card
3. Photo of the applicant
4. Copy of the ration card
5. Caste Certificate
6. Income Certificate
7. Residence proof
8. Photocopy of bank passbook
9. Physical Disability Certificate, if applicable
10. Any other document, if required
