Asangathit Karmakar Prasuti Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Delivery AssistanceEmpowermentFinancial Assistance
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Asangathit Karmakar Prasuti Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 10 April 2018. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing financial help for the delivery assistance.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 20,000/- 
Eligibility
Applicant must be registered unorganized worker.
Applicant can be male or female.
Applicant will be not eligible if he/she is contract workers, female domestic workers, porters and sanitation workers. 
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Birth certificate of the child.
A scanned copy of the registration certificate.
Mobile Number. 
Aadhaar Card.
Bank passbook photo copy.
It is mandatory to have authorized verification of pregnancy of the female worker by a doctor, ANM or Mitanin.
