Subsidy Scheme For Establishment Of Goat Unit (10+1) For Scheduled Caste People
Gujarat
EmploymentGoatMilk ProductionScheduled CasteSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Subsidy Scheme for Establishment of Goat Unit (10+1) for Scheduled Caste People” was launched by the Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers Welfare & Co-operation, Government of Gujarat to uplift economically poor livestock breeders of Gujarat State. Under the scheme, each beneficiary should purchase 10 female goats and 1 male goat and the beneficiary has to contribute 50% of the unit cost for food, water, fodder, residence, and concentrate expenses.
Terms and conditions of the scheme:-
The beneficiary has to purchase a goat's unit within 90 days of pre-approval of the online application. If the beneficiary fails to establish the goat unit within the time limit or proves disabled then the approval order given to the beneficiary will be canceled and the approval order will be given to the beneficiary who is next on the waiting list.
The Beneficiary has to give his/her photograph with the goat unit.
In general circumstances, the unit should be run for 3 years.
Beneficiary has to note the record of milk production and has to give register and information during the visit of the department technical officer.

Benefits
1. Under the scheme, each beneficiary should purchase 10 female goats and 1 male goat. 1 to 2 year old female goats and a 2 to 3 years old buck should be bought.
2. Under this scheme, the subsidy will be given 50% of the unit cost of the scheme (Maximum ₹45,000/-) for food, water, fodder, residence, and concentrate expenses.
Eligibility
This scheme can be applicable only to the adult beneficiaries of the Scheduled Caste people.
The benefit has been provided to only one person per family.
The Beneficiary has to give his/her photograph with the goat unit.
The beneficiary should purchase 1 to 2 year old female goats and a 2 to 3 years old buck.
The beneficiary has to contribute 50% of the unit cost of the scheme for food, water, fodder, residence, and concentrates expenses.
In general circumstances, the unit should be run for 3 years.
Note 01: The beneficiary has to purchase a goat's unit within 90 days of pre-approval of the online application. If the beneficiary fails to establish the goat unit within the time limit or proves disabled then the approval order given to the beneficiary will be canceled and the approval order will be given to the beneficiary who is next on the waiting list.
Note 02: Beneficiary has to note the record of milk production and has to give register and information during the visit of the department technical officer.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The beneficiary has to apply online at I-Khedut Portal.  https://ikhedut.gujarat.gov.in/iKhedutPublicScheme/Public/frm_Public_ANH2_SchemeApplicaiton.aspx
Step 02: Click on the "Apply Newly" button and submit a new application.
Step 03: Click on the "Update Application" button to add corrections to the application.
Step 04: Click on the “Upload Documents” and uploaded all the required documents.
Step 05: Once the application is done, confirm it. The application must be confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application.
Step 06: The application must be signed and submitted along with the supporting documents to the office address mentioned on the application” or “Application confirmed within seven days from the date of saving the online application scanned copy of the application and other documents can be uploaded after confirming the application.
Step 07: Take a printout of the confirmed application form, sign/thumb impression on it, and with all submit the concerned documents within 7 days to a nearby veterinary dispensary.
Note 01: It is mandatory to take a printout of the application (only applying online will not count as an application).
Note 02: Take a printout of the online application and submit it along with necessary documents to the office/office address mentioned on the application or after applying online on the I-Khedut Portal, take a printout of the application and scan it with signature/thumbprint and "Signed Application Print" on the portal. A copy can be uploaded by clicking on Upload" menu. "Other Document Upload" wherever applicable.
Note 03: The application will be inwardly taken online by the concerned officer/office only if the correct and sufficient documents are uploaded along with the application signed/fingerprinted by the beneficiary.
Note 04: If wrong/incomplete documents are uploaded online by the beneficiary, such application will not be inwarded online. In such circumstances, the beneficiary has to submit the remaining/correct documents to the concerned office within seven days of application.
Note 05: Scanned copy uploaded in PDF format should not exceed 200 KB in size.
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID Card
Proof of Date of Birth (if applicable)
Below Poverty Line Card (If applicable)
Residence proof
Caste Certificate
Disability Certificate from Competent Authority (if applicable)
Ration Card (if applicable)
Savings Account Bank Passbook or Cancelled Check
