Grant of Subsidy for Procurement of Vehicle
Puducherry
Financial AsisstanceFisheriesFishermanProcurementSubsidyVehicle
Details
Launched in 2010, the scheme "Grant of Subsidy for Procurement of Vehicle" is a Sub-Scheme under the Umbrella Scheme "Puducherry Development of Shore Based Facilities, Ice Plants, Service Unit, Infrastructural Facilities and Quick Transport Facilities" is a development scheme by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The scheme aims to facilitate the quick transportation of fish catches from landing centers to marketing places, thereby preventing/minimizing spoilage of fish. It provides a 50% subsidy for the procurement of specified vehicles.

Benefits
50% subsidy for the purchase of auto goods carrier up to 1-ton capacity (maximum subsidy of ₹75,000).
50% subsidy for the purchase of a mini truck with 1-3 ton capacity (maximum subsidy of ₹1,50,000).
50% subsidy for the purchase of a mini lorry with 3-5 ton capacity (maximum subsidy of ₹3,50,000).
50% subsidy for the purchase of an insulated fish van with 5-10 ton capacity (maximum subsidy of ₹5,00,000).
50% subsidy for the purchase of a moped with an insulated ice-box (maximum subsidy of ₹15,000).
50% subsidy for the purchase of engine spares for boats (maximum subsidy of ₹2,000 per boat per annum).

Mode of Disbursement
The subsidy amount will be released to the bank and credited to the account of the beneficiary for whom the loan amount was sanctioned by the bank.
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to the fishermen's community and must be a resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry by domicile or birth.
The applicant's age should not be less than 18 years old or more than 50 years of age.
The applicant should not have availed the benefit of a loan/subsidy under the scheme earlier for the purpose for which the subsidy is sought.
The applicant should be a member of a Fishermen Cooperative Society and should not have any overdue with the society/department.
The applicant should possess a driving license issued by the Transport Authority for driving a moped/auto goods carrier or transport vehicle.
The applicant should not be employed in Government/Government undertakings/Societies either on a regular/part-time or temporary basis.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Loan Sanction Order From the Bank.
Quotation From the Dealer for the Vehicle.
Driving License and Badge for Driving Moped/auto Goods Carrier or Transport Vehicle.
Purchase Invoice Copies and Rc Book for Vehicle Verification.
Copies of Mortgage Documents in Respect of the Beneficiary for Official Record.
