Samajik Mukti
West Bengal
FinancialLabourProvident FundSocialUnorganised Sector
Details
The government issued 'Samajik Mukti' (Social Freedom) cards to unorganised sector workers of the State for Provident Fund & Other Social Benefit scheme. "The name of this card is Samajik Mukti card. Initially, 25 lakhs beneficiaries were given the card under the State assisted scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW). Finally, the cards have been distributed to disburse benefits under three schemes of State government namely: i) State assisted scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW) ii) Buildings and other Construction workers' welfare scheme iii) Motor Transport workers' welfare scheme. The objective of the project is to realize the following objectives: 
i) Bringing the maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes 
ii) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes 
iii) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available.

'SAMAJIK MUKTI CARD’ for the marginal & unorganized sector workers in the State is an important step towards the empowerment of all unorganised sector workers.

The vision is to enroll all unorganized sector workers under State Assisted Scheme of Provident Fund for Unorganized Workers (SASPFUW), Buildings and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare (BOCWA) and West Bengal Motor Transport Workers’ Welfare (WBTWSS) Schemes and the unorganized sector workers covered under SASPFUW are getting special smart cards called ‘SAMAJIK MUKTI CARD’ Smart Card (with 32 KB memory) based solution for Samajik Mukti Card brings immense benefits:
An online web based application in connection with administration of SASPFUW Scheme is already in operation and would become fully functional in the near future. A beneficiary would be able to have an access to his/ her records through this “Samajik Mukti Card”.
“Samajik Mukti Card” can be used by an unorganized worker at any of the 68 Regional labour Offices (R.L.O) at districts and subdivisions as well as in all 480 Labour Welfare Facilitation Centres (L.W.F.C) in blocks and Municipalities. All such offices are provided with computer along with card reader and card writer. On inserting the card in the card reader/ writer, the required information will be seen on computer screen. Once transaction is made and /or benefits are availed by a worker, it will be automatically updated and shown in the computer screen. The card reader/ writer system will be connected to the Central SASPFUW Server hosted at SDC.
“Samajik Mukti Card” is a photo identity smart card for unorganized workers. The card could be read from any R.L.O or L.W.F.C. The records of transaction made and/or benefits availed are electronically maintained and data is tamper proof and highly secured.
It is also an attempt to integrate all social security benefits available for the unorganized workers.

The objective of the project is to realize following objectives: 
i) Bringing maximum number of Workers under the welfare schemes 
ii) Smooth and Speedy delivery of Welfare benefits under the three schemes 
iii) Effective and Transparent management and utilization of the funds available.

The benefits of this scheme include the following:
Provident Fund is given to the unorganised worker to provide financial security and stability.
Compensation in case of death or disability during work.
The government provides financial assistance to the children of beneficiaries who pursue higher studies (for the applicants registered for at least one year). Besides, they give training in safety and skill development.
The department also provides health treatment facilities to the unorganised workers who have registered under this scheme.

Eligibility: 
The unorganized workers who want to become members should be residing in West Bengal between the age of 18 to 60 and the family income should not exceed 65 thousand rupees per month. There is no income ceiling for construction workers and transport workers.

Benefits
The benefits of this scheme include the following:
Provident Fund is given to the unorganised worker to provide financial security and stability.
Compensation in case of death or disability during work.
The government provides financial assistance to the children of beneficiaries who pursue higher studies (for the applicants registered for at least one year). Besides, they give training in safety and skill development.
The department also provides health treatment facilities to the unorganised workers who have registered under this scheme.
Eligibility
The unorganized workers who want to become members should be residing in West Bengal
They should be between the age of 18 to 60 years.
The family income should not exceed 65 thousand rupees per month. 

Note: There is no income ceiling for construction workers and transport workers.
Application Process
Offline
The card is issued to all the people who fall in the eligibility criteria, which acts as the key to applying for all the social welfare schemes related to the welfare of the workers in the unorganised sector. For more details, you may visit your nearest labour department office.
Documents Required
No official announcement regarding the documents needed for Samajik Mukti Card has been made. But we suggest you keep the following documents in case you need them.
Identity Proof
Income Proof
Employment details
