Prime Minister’s Special Scholarship Scheme For The Students Of Union Territories Of Jammu & Kashmir And Ladakh
Ministry of Education
Scholarship
Details
Launch in the year 2011, PMSSS is a scholarship scheme by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for the students who are domicile of the UTs of J&K and Ladakh who, after passing Class 12th or equivalent examination, secure admission in government colleges/institutions and other select institutions outside the UTs of J&K and Ladakh through AICTE’s counseling process under the supernumerary quota created by the government (except in medical courses). The applicant should have passed the Class 12th examination from JKBOSE or CBSE-affiliated schools located in the UTs of J&K and Ladakh. The family income of the applicant should not exceed ₹8,00,000 per annum. 5000 fresh scholarships are available per annum. 2070 scholarships are for General Degree Courses, 2830 for Professional/Engineering courses, and 100 for Medical Courses.

Benefits
Rate of Scholarships, Academic Fee & Maintenance Allowance:

Stream: General Degree
Number of Scholarships: 2070 (fixed)
Academic Fee (Upper limit): ₹30,000/-
Maintenance Charges (Fixed): ₹1,00,000*

Stream: Professional/Engineering/B.Sc.Nursing / B. Pharmacy/ B. Architecture (subject to NATA)/HMCT Degree
Number of Scholarships: ₹1,25,000
Academic Fee (Upper limit): 2830 (flexible)
Maintenance Charges (Fixed): ₹1,00,000*

Stream: Medical/BDS or equivalent Medical Stream (subject to NEET, wherever applicable)
Number of Scholarships: 100 (flexible)
Academic Fee (Upper limit): ₹3,00,000
Maintenance Charges (Fixed): ₹1,00,000*

*Not exceeding ₹1,00,000 per annum (in ten equal installments to meet hostel, mess, books, stationery & other incidentals). Fresh students admitted in the academic session 2022-23 will be paid maintenance allowance from the date of joining the institute physically.

The number of scholarships for engineering and medical studies would be kept flexible, subject to the ceiling of 5000 fresh scholarships per annum and subject to the savings accruing from any shortfall in the number of students opting for general degree courses.

Disbursement of Scholarship:
The scholarship towards academic fees will be paid directly to the Institution as per claim or as per rate fixed by the respective State Fee Regulatory Authority or as fixed by any Regulatory Authority appointed by the Government, whichever is less and within the overall ceiling fixed for the course. 
All the Institutions may note that the upper ceiling of the Academic Fee inclusive of all admissible components taken together is ₹1,25,000/- for the Professional / Engineering Stream; ₹30,000/- for General Stream and ₹3,00,000 for Medical Stream. 
Even if the total fee of the institute is more than the ceiling, neither AICTE shall reimburse the extra amount nor the institute can charge the same from the students.
The fixed maintenance allowance of ₹1,00,000 per annum for all streams will be paid to the bank account of the student through DBT using the PFMS gateway. 
Maintenance Allowance during the first year will be released in 9 (Nine) installments, the first installment of which will be ₹20,000/ and subsequent 8 monthly installments will be of ₹10,000/- each.
From the 2nd year onwards fixed maintenance allowance of ₹1,00,000 per beneficiary will be paid in 10 monthly installments of ₹10,000/- each.

Duration of Scholarships:
The scholarships granted under the scheme are renewed in subsequent classes subject to good conduct and maintenance of attendance as prescribed by the respective institution. 
Students failing to get promoted to the next class/level would get the scholarship in the following year subject to the condition that if the student fails again for the second time, then he/she would forfeit the scholarship, and the scholarship would not be renewed for the subsequent years. 
If a scholar is unable to appear in the annual examination owing to illness and/or on account of any unforeseen incident, the scholarship may be renewed for the next academic year on submission of a medical certificate and other proof to satisfy the Head of the Institution who will also certify the same. The scholarship will not be paid twice for the same year of study.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a domicile of Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh.
The applicant must have passed the 12th examination from JKBOSE or CBSE-affiliated schools located in UTs of J&K and Ladakh.
The family income of the applicant should be less than or equal to ₹8,00,000 per annum.
The applicant who wants to take admitted under the Lateral Entry Scheme have to pass a Diploma in Engineering from the Polytechnic Institutes recognized by the Directorate of Technical Education(DTE), J&K, and Ladakh.
The applicants are compulsorily required to apply online on the AICTE web portal.
Admission under the Lateral Entry Scheme will be subject to allocation of seats / vacant seats of the preceding year in the Engineering Stream only.
A merit list will be prepared for HSC and Lateral Entry students and the same will be displayed on the AICTE portal for the conduction of online counseling for the final allotment of seats in colleges to eligible candidates subject to choice filling/availability of scholarships.
Application Process
Online
Step: 1
Visit https://www.aicte-india.org/bureaus/jk/2021-2022
Step: 2
Click on the "PMSSS 2021-22 Registration" tab
Step: 3
On the left Click on the tab ‘Diploma Registration (2022-23)’
Step: 4
Fill in all the fields. The mandatory fields are: 
Candidate's Name as per 12th Registration
Father's Name as per 12th Registration
Mother's Name as per 12th Registration
12th Roll Number
Year of Passing
Board (JKBOSE or CBSE)
Family Annual Income (0-8,00,000; 8,00,001-Above)
Is Domicile of J&K or Ladakh? (Yes/No).
Registered for CUET? (Yes/No); If Yes, CUET Registration Number.
Registered for NEET? (Yes/No); If Yes, NEET Registration Number.
Registered for JEE? (Yes/No); If Yes, JEE Registration Number.
Mobile Number
email ID
Password (The password should contain at least one lowercase letter, one uppercase letter, one number, and one special character)
Step: 5
Click on "Register".  You will receive an email on the email ID that you've provided in the registration form. The email shall contain a link to continue with the registration process. Click on that link.
Step: 6
After registration, visit https://aicte-jk-scholarship-gov.in/. Sign-In using email ID / Candidate ID and password.
Step: 7
Provide your Personal Details, Address Details, Family & Income Details, Education Details, and Attachments.
Step: 8
Upload the mandatory documents. Click on "Save & Upload". Then click "Next".
Step: 9
Now click on the "Submit Application" tab. Fill out the mandatory fields. Finally, click on "Submit Application".
Documents Required
Certificate of domicile of the State of Jammu & Kashmir
Certificate of Class 12th and 10th Examination (for candidates who have passed class 12th examination)
Polytechnic Diploma Certificate (for Diploma candidates)
Income Certificate
Students applying under the reserved quota must produce a Caste Certificate (SC/ST/SEBC) issued by the State Government authority.
Persons with Disabilities (PwD) must submit Disability Certificate subject to Govt. Norms.
Joining report in the allotted college.
Bank Details
Name and photograph of the applicant
AADHAAR Card
