Asangathit Karmakar Ke Bachcho Hetu Chhatravriti Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EducationFinancial HelpLearning
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Asangathit Karmakar Ke Bachcho Hetu Chhatravriti Yojana" for unorganized worker on 10 April 2018. The main objective of the scheme to provide the financial assistance for the education of unorganized worker. 

Benefits

Classes For Boy Students (Annually) For Girl Students (Annually)
Class 1st to 5th ₹ 500/- ₹ 750/-
Class 6th to 8th ₹ 750/- ₹ 1,000/-
Class 9th to 12th ₹ 1,000/- ₹ 1,500/-
Graduation Diploma ( B.A, B.Sc, B.Com etc) ₹ 1,500/- ₹ 2,000/-
Post Graduation ( M.A, M.Sc., M.Com) ₹ 2,500/- ₹ 3,000/-
On Pursuing graduation level Professional Course ₹ 3,000/- ₹ 4,000/-
Study in professional examination at postgraduate level, Ph.D., M.Phil. etc ₹ 4,000/- ₹ 5,000/-
Eligibility
Parent must be registered unorganized worker in Social Security Board.
Scholarship only be provided to the first two sons/daughters of registered unorganized workers.
Contract workers, domestic female workers, porters, and sanitation workers are not eligible for the scholarship. 
Students receiving scholarships must complete at least one year of their engineering or medical education course. If they drop out within one year, they must return the scholarship money.
Students can only receive one scholarship, even if they are eligible for multiple scholarships.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Registration Card Details.
Copy of ration card.
Bank Account Details.
School/Collage admission Details.
