Award of Pre-matric Scholarship to Scheduled Caste Students Studying from VI to X Standard in Government Schools and Government recognised Private Schools in the Union Territory of Puducherry
Puducherry
Pre-matricScheduled CasteScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme “Award of Pre-matric Scholarship to Scheduled Caste Students Studying from VI to X Standard in Government Schools and Government Recognized Private Schools in the Union Territory of Puducherry” is implemented by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. 
Objective:
The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to Scheduled Caste students to complete their education up to the secondary level and to avoid dropping out of the Scheduled Caste students from their education.

Benefits
The Scholarship shall be granted for 10 months in an academic year at the following rates: 
₹1,500/- per annum per student from VI to VIII Standard i.e. (₹150/- per month per student for 10 months in an academic year).
₹2,500/- per annum per student from IX & X Standard i.e. (₹250/- per month per student for 10 months in an academic year).
Eligibility
Boys and girls belonging to Scheduled Caste Community and studying from VI to X Standard are eligible to avail of the Scholarship.
The student should be a native of the Union Territory of Puducherry by virtue of birth or having residence for a continuous period of not less than five years.
The scholarship will be available only if the student is continuing his/her studies satisfactorily i.e. he/she secures promotion to the next higher class annually.
The annual income of the parent/guardian shall not exceed ₹24,000/-.
Note: The annual income of the parents/guardians shall not exceed the limit of income for the below poverty line prescribed by the Government from time to time.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The students applying for the scholarship for the first time need to "Register" using the icon “New Registration” at the NSP Portal URL - https://scholarships.gov.in/, by providing accurate and correct information as per their documents.
Step 02: After successfully get registration done, students will get their “Student Registration ID”.
Step 03: Through “Student Registration ID” students will be able to login into the account using the icon “Fresh Application” at NSP Portal.
Step 04: After successful login to the portal, the welcome page appeared. On clicking the “Application Form” icon, students will be directed to the application screen.
Step 05: Now, the students may fill out the complete application form and on clicking the “Final Submit” button, the application is finally submitted.
Step 06: On successful submission of the application, a system-generated registration number is sent to the students which can be used for future reference.
Documents Required
1. Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card
2. Passport size photograph
3. Educational documents/certificates i.e. Mark sheets
4. Caste certificate
5. Income certificate
6. Residence-cum-nativity certificate issued by the competent authority
7. Bank Account details
