Tripura Journalist Health Insurance Scheme
Tripura
Health InsuranceJournalist
Details
A Health Insurance Scheme by the Directorate of Information & Culture Affairs, for Journalists who are permanent residents of the state of Tripura. The applicant must be an accredited journalist by the state government or PIB. The age must be in between 21-65 years. The applicant must not have been covered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme or any other Health Insurance Scheme of the Central or State Government. The beneficiary will receive medical care facilities for all the diseases as listed by the State government after recommendation by the committee. The maximum coverage of benefits from all sources will be ₹3,00,000. The application shall be submitted to the Director, the Information and Cultural Affairs Department. The basic objective of the scheme is to financially protect the Journalists from monetary burdens and liabilities that are a result of unfortunate health-related situations and emergencies.

Benefits
The beneficiary will receive medical care facilities for all the diseases as listed by the State government after recommendation by the committee. The maximum coverage of benefits from all sources will be ₹3,00,000.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the state of Tripura.
The applicant must be an accredited working journalist by the state government or by the Press Information Bureau (PIB). 
The age of the applicant must be in between 21 years and 65 years. 
The applicant must not have been covered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme or any other Health Insurance Scheme of the Central or State Government.
Application Process
Offline
The procedure of enrolment as a beneficiary under the scheme:
Step: 1
To be eligible under the scheme as a beneficiary, a working journalist must apply to the following address with all supporting documents-  
The Director
Information and Cultural Affairs Department
Government of Tripura.
Gandhighat , Agartala ,Tripura - 799 001
Step: 2
Director, of Information & Cultural Affairs will verify all the eligibilities through the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and other concerned agencies.
Step: 3
After completion of verification the Director, Information & Cultural Affairs will place the application with all necessary documents to the "Tripura Journalist Health Insurance Scheme Recommendation Committee" (JHISRC).
Step: 4
By the recommendation of the Committee and followed by the approval of the State Government the applicant applicants will be enrolled as beneficiaries under the scheme.
Documents Required
Proof of Age / DOB
Proof of Residence
Bank Details (Refer Source)
Income Certificate
Proof reg the health-related situations
