Vocational Training For VJNT And SBC Candidates Studying In Government Industrial Training Institute
Maharashtra
Government Industrial TrainingSpecial Backward ClassesVimukta Jati And Nomadic TribesVocational Training
Details
The State Government of Maharashtra introduced in 2003-04 the scheme to create self-employment for unemployed youths and students of VJNT and SBC who apply for Vocational Training. He will be given Vocational Training in Government I.T.I and undergo short-duration vocational training courses. The short-duration vocational courses will enable the youths to create their own employment in the service sector.
The training fees ₹ 400/- to ₹ 2400/- (as per course) are paid to the concerned I.T.I. After completion of training, one Tool Kit of ₹ 1000/- is provided to the trainee through the concerned Govt. I.T.I.

Benefits
The training fees ₹ 400/- to ₹ 2400/- (as per course) are paid to the concerned I.T.I. After completion of training, one Tool Kit of ₹ 1000/- is provided to the trainee through the concerned Govt. I.T.I.
Eligibility
Students should belong to VJNT or SBC Category.
The selection of students for training under this scheme is made by the Principal of the concerned Govt. I.T.I. & concerned Asstt.
Commissioner of Social Welfare.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the concerned Industrial Training Institute (ITI), and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card
Caste certificate
Income Certificate of Parents
Domicile Certificate
School Leaving Certificate
Residence Proof
