Shop Construction/Shop Operation Scheme For Rehabilitation Of PwDs
Uttar Pradesh
BusinessEmpowermentFinancial AssistanceLoan
Details
The "Shop Construction/Shop Operation Scheme For Rehabilitation Of PwDs" started to support disabled people in the Uttar Pradesh State. Under this scheme, financial Assistance is provided to eligible disabled persons to start their own shop/business for Rehabilitation. 
Site selection for Shop Construction/Buying Shop/Taking Shop on Rent:
Urban Area - A place where there is a complete possibility of running a business.
Rural Area - A place where there is easy transportation and there is a possibility of running a business.
Process of Payment:
Applications will be accepted as per rules based on the principle of first come and first serve and payment will be made in their bank account through e-payment.
Recovery of Loan
The basic loan sanctioned for the construction of the shop will be recovered in thirty equal instalments at the rate of Rs. 500/- per quarterly instalment after one year of payment of the entire amount of loan and grant.
The basic loan sanctioned for the purchase of the shop will be recovered in thirty equal instalments at the rate of Rs. 500/- per quarterly instalment after three months of payment.
The basic loan sanctioned for the purchase of the Khokha/Gumti/Handcart will be recovered in thirty equal instalments at the rate of Rs. 250/- per quarterly instalment after three months of payment.
The interest amount will be recovered after the recovery of the basic loan sanctioned for the construction of the shop/ Khokha, Gumti, and Handcart. This recovery will be done in 24 equal monthly instalments. The beneficiary can also pay a lump sum of the entire amount of interest.

Benefits
An amount of Rs. 20,000/- is allocated for the establishment of a shop.
Out of Rs. 20,000/-, Rs. 15,000/- is provided in the form of a loan at 4% interest and Rs. 5,000/- is provided as a grant.
An amount of Rs. 10,000/- is allocated for the operation of the shop/khokha/gumti/hand cart.
Out of Rs. 10,000/-, Rs. 7,500/- is provided in the form of a loan at 4% interest and Rs. 2,500/- is provided as a grant.
Eligibility
Certificate of minimum 40% disability (Certificate issued by Chief Medical Officer, Doctor of Community Health Centre/Primary Health Centre will only be valid).
Persons with Disabilities of all categories who are citizens of Uttar Pradesh.
The age of the Applicant should not be less than 18 years and should be less than 60 years.
Persons with Disabilities who are not convicted in any criminal or financial matters and no government money/amount should be payable against them
Persons with Disabilities should own 110 sq. ft. of land for shop construction or should be able to buy/take the land of the said area from their resources.
The tenant should be given a tenure lease for a period of 5 years by the Persons with Disabilities for the operation of the shop available to them (Rent and working capital)
Persons with disabilities whose annual income does not exceed twice the income limit prescribed by the government from time to time to the poverty line.
Application Process
Online
Applicants have to visit official portal.
Click on the new entry form.
Now applicants have to provide some details as :
i. Personal Details.
ii. Bank Details.
iii. Income proof certificate. 
iv. Disability Details.
v. Application type. 
Submit. 
Documents Required
Applicant's photo.
Age Certificate.
Identification Proof.
Bank Details.
Disability Certificate.
