India Afghanistan Fellowship
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AfghanistanAgriculturalFellowship
Details
India-Afghanistan Fellowship Programme started in 2010-11 with 115 fellowships every year for pursuing Master's and Ph.D in Indian Agricultural Universities, to support the agricultural human resource development in Afghanistan through formal education of Afghanistan scientists/faculty and students in India. The programme has been revised to offer 276 fellowships (including backlog) (154, Bachelor's; 61, Master's and 61, Ph.D. programmes) from 2012-13; 277 fellowships (153, Bachelor's; 62, Master's and 62, Ph.D. programmes) in 2013-14 and 61 (Master's) in 2014-15 to pursue degree programmes in Agriculture and allied sciences in identified Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs), from Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) - Agricultural Universities (AUs) system..

The system comprises 54 State Agricultural Universities, five Deemed-to-be-Universities including four of the ICAR Institutes, one Central Agricultural University and four Central Universities with Agricultural Faculty. Many of them are internationally recognized for their contribution to research and human resource development. The Indian AUs spread over the entire length and breadth of the country and cater to Human Resource Development for different agro-climatic regions. All Indian AUs have excellent laboratories and other infrastructural facilities including instructional farms, good libraries, computer laboratories, boy's and girl's hostels and sports and recreational facilities. To provide better amenities to international students, well-furnished international students hostels are available in many AU campuses

Benefits
Description of the Benefits*: 
A fellowship will be awarded to Bachelor's degree programme for four years and for the Master's degree programme for two years @ INR 12,000 per month in each case and at INR 15,000 per month for three years for Ph.D Programme, out of the India-Afghanistan Fund of the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India. Any change in the Fellowship amount will be informed to the candidates.
All expenditures towards tuition fee, hostel fee, mess, medical, contingency and travel within the country etc. during the course will be borne by the student utilizing the consolidated fellowship amount. However, a provision of a research contingency grant of INR 6,000 and P INR 10,000 per year for M.Sc. and Ph.D. candidates respectively and group insurance are under consideration.
Annual charges of bench fee (US $2000 per candidate per year) as per SAARC countries shall be payable to the Indian AUs, and will be covered under the India-Afghanistan Fund. 
The fee structure for fellows will be as per the norms of the University.
There is no provision to change the University, once admission is granted. However, the candidate can show his/her preferences at the time of submission of the Application form; the Screening Committee may consider the request, depending upon the availability of a seat in the respective University.
Eligibility
Education
A. Must have good knowledge of English for all programmes.
B. Bachelor's degree Programme
• For admission in the B.Sc. programme in Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry and Bachelor of Technology/Biotechnology, the candidate must have passed in 10 +2 examination with Physics, Chemistry and Biology/Mathematics or both.

C. Master's degree Programme
• For admission in the M.Sc. programme in Agriculture and allied fields, the candidate must have a four year
bachelor's degree in agriculture/related subject.
• For admission to M.V.Sc. the programme, the candidate must have passed B.V.Sc. & A.H. with internship before the date of registration in the University under 5 years degree programme.
• For admission to M.Tech. the programme, the candidate must have passed B.Tech. or B. E. programme.
• Overall Grade Point Average (OGPA) of 5.50/10 or equivalent percentage of marks at Bachelor's degree level.

D. Doctoral Programme
Master's degree in respective/related subject.
OGPA of 6.5/10 or equivalent percentage of marks at Master's degree level.  
Application Process
Online
Process
The Afghan nationals will be admitted to Indian AUs on the recommendations of the Government of India following their nominations by the Afghanistan Govt. Information about the Universities is available on the ICAR website (www.icar.org.in) and the details of their programs, courses, and admission requirements are available on the websites of the respective Universities. The Afghan candidates desiring admission in Indian Agricultural universities will apply to their government for sponsorship. After scrutiny, the applications and recommended nominations will be sent through their Embassy to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Govt. of India. The MEA will send them to the Director, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Govt. of India, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi. All the applications will then be sent to Education Division, ICAR for consideration of eligibility and recommending admission in Indian AUs. The final selection will be communicated by the University along with the recommendation letter of ICAR/DARE.
Documents Required
The fellows who are awarded fellowship should bring with them all documents relating to their qualifications in original for verification by the respective College/University at the time of admission. 

Many Indian AUs require that these original documents be deposited with them which will be returned to the candidate at the time of departure after completion of the COUrSe.
