AICTE-PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
Ministry of Education
AICTEConferencesFacultiesReimbursementSeminarsSymposiaTravel Grant
Details
AICTE-Professional Development Scheme has been launched by the All India Council for Technical Education with an intention to provide financial assistance to regular faculty of the AICTE approved institutes and AICTE officers on regular and deputation basis in order to present research papers at international conferences abroad& within India.
Objectives:
To enable the meritorious faculties and officers of AICTE to interact at international level to update themselves to the global changes in the concerned field of specializations through paper presentation in conference abroad& within India.

Benefits
Limit of Funding: Up to ₹ 1,50,000/- 

Disbursement of the Funds: 
The grant will be disbursed on reimbursement basis on receipt of claim form along with relevant documents. Total grant will be based on the recommended group of countries with fixed financial effect as follows:-
Group A : North America, Australia, South America, New Zealand : ₹ 1,50,000/- 
Group B : Europe, Far-East Asia, Japan, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea,& Africa : ₹ 1,20,000/- 
Group C: Neighboring Countries, Gulf Countries & SE Asia:₹ 1,00,000/- 
Group D : Within India: ₹  50,000
Group E : Conferences which are not covered under the above Groups (Group A-D) will be evaluated by the committee Amount recommended as per group of countries or Average of amount recommended by the experts,
or,
Actual expenditure incurred, whichever is lesser will be entitled. Reimbursement of the following expenditures will be granted:
Registration fee for conference.
Per Day, allowance (Days of the conference plus actual journey period) asper the central government rules.
Total expenses towards travel from international airport to destination airport and back.
Note:
In case a candidate has availed grant in Group D, individual is still eligible to avail this grant for international support (with in a period of three years) minus the amount utilized for with in India.
In case of the workshop/conference/seminar being held in online mode, AICTE will only be releasing the registration fee.
Terms and conditions:
The applicant has to perform the journey by Air India only, unless Air India gives an official certificate that there is no flight on the concerned sector (either of Air India itself or in collaboration with some other airlines). In case, journey is performed by any other airline, the airfare approved will not be released.
Applicant should submit only one proposal at a time.
In case an application of a candidate for a particular event (for a Particular date as well as a particular venue) is rejected, the same shall not be considered again and no correspondence in this regard shall be entertained by the Council.
The grant offered cannot be utilized for any other purpose other than the purpose for which granted.
Application should be submitted three months in advance.
Eligibility
Full time regular faculty from the AICTE approved Institute/AICTE approved University Department (with at least 5 years of existence).
 The officers of Assistant Director and above on regular and deputation basis in AICTE.
The applicant must not have availed the grant under this scheme during the last three years.
Applicant must have received acceptance of paper from the organizer of conference abroad& within India.
Application Process
Online
Registration of New Institute:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicte-india.org/partnerportal_enu/start.swe and click on 'New Institute' button.
Step 02: Users will be redirected to another website. Hover the cursor on Login and select ‘Investor Login’.
Step 03: New users need to click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.
Step 04: Enter the details and click on ‘Verify’ to receive OTP on your Email Id and Mobile Number.
Step 05: After successful verification Click on ‘Sign Up Now’ to register.

Post-Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit http://portal.aicte-india.org/partnerportal_enu/start.swe and log in with the credentials provided by AICTE.
Step 02: Navigate to AQIS Application Screen by clicking on ‘AQIS Application’ screen tab.
Step 03: Institute details will auto populate in the AQIS Application.
Step 04: Fill demographic and Bank details .
Step 05: Only after confirming the Bank Details, the 'New' button will be enabled for adding the AQIS Application. Click on 'New' button to create AQIS Application.
Step 06: A unique AQIS Application ID will get created. Select the "AICTE-PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT SCHEME" or "Travel Grant Scheme" as Scheme from the drop down List.
Step 07: Now details to be filled for the as followed: Program Details, Personalities Expected, Participating Industries ,Similar Events, Budget Estimate -Others, Academic Credentials of Coordinator/ PI/ Applicant, Justification, Credential of Institute / Department.
Step 07: Once the user has filled all the data in the above mentioned tab, user should click on ‘Validate Application’ button on the ‘AQIS Application’ tab.
Step 08: User will get a pop up message to attach a Mandate Form  after downloading the sample form.
Step 09: Now fill the amount in the ‘Total Funds Requested’ under label ‘Budget Estimates Others’.
Step 10: After Validation is completed successfully, read the declaration, check it and click on Save.
Step 10: Click on “Submit” button to submit the application.
Documents Required
Documents to be submitted for reimbursement claim:
The claims for reimbursement in the prescribed format duly supported by the following relevant documents should be sent to AICTE through the Head of the Institution in the enclosed Performa within two months of the completion of the visit:
Certified attested copy of passport indicating visa/immigration as proof of undertaking journey.
Self-attested certificate for the journey performed.
Statement of expenditure incurred against the amount of travel grant offered under different heads.
Air-tickets of Air-India / Indian Airlines (properly legible and in original with original Boarding Pass).
Certificate from Air-India indicating the shortest route to the venue approved. If journey is not performed by Air-India due to non-availability of flight official certificate from Air-India, stating that there is no flight in the concerned sector (either of Air India itself or in collaboration with some other Air-lines) on that particular date.
Letter of acceptance of paper from the organizer of conference.
Original receipt of Registration Fee paid.
Copy of paper presented in conference.
Voucher indicating the rate at which foreign currency is purchased.
Travel documents/ certificate of participation from the concerned institutional agency.
Progress report on the international conference participated along with outcome and benefits of the
event stating scientific and technical activities undertaken during period in the prescribed format duly counter signed by Director/Registrar/Principal.
Certificate from the head of the institution stating that the applicant has not availed the grant under travel grant scheme of AICTE during the last two years.
Details of assistance received from and/ or facilities provided by other organization for the conference with documentary proof.
The details of assistance received or facilities provided by the organizers of the conference or any other similar Indian/foreign agency.
Certified copy of AICTE Extension of approval for current year.
E-payment details in the prescribed proforma.
Photographs of conference participated.
