Internship Policy Of Indian Council For Cultural Relations (ICCR)
Ministry Of External Affairs
CultureHonorariumInternshipStipendStudent
Details
Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) is an autonomous body under the Ministry of External Affairs

The Internship Policy of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) provides an excellent opportunity for budding scholars to familiarise themselves with the role of soft power in foreign policy formulation in the Government of India. These ‘Interns’ shall be given exposure to various Sections with ICCR and would be expected to supplement the process of analysis in various fields including creative writing, cultural mapping, technology upgradation in EGIT, creating a module for performing and visual art, historical cultural linkages of India with other countries and the use of Social Media in Cultural Diplomacy. It aims at active participation in the learning process through experimentation and putting into practice the knowledge acquired in the classrooms.

Intake
A maximum of 15 interns will be engaged by ICCR during the course of a year. 

Location
The interns will be placed at ICCR, New Delhi and its Regional Offices in Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Guwahati, Ahmadabad and Hyderabad.

Duration
Each intern will be engaged for a maximum period of four months.

Duties & Responsibilities
Interns will be assigned specific topics of work by the concerned Sectional Head and may be required to conduct research, write reports, analyze evolving developments or carry out any other task entrusted to them by the Sectional Heads.

Benefits
Honorarium
An honorarium of ₹ 10,000/- per month will be paid to each intern.

Air Fare
The cost of one-time to and fro air travel is subject to a ceiling of the prevailing economy class airfare between the State capital and Delhi, from the domicile State or from the college/ university of the selected candidates will be provided. 
NOTE: The interns would be responsible for their board and lodging in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Guwahati, Ahmadabad and Hyderabad.

Logistics Support
Necessary logistic support will be provided to the intern taking into account the functional requirements.

Certificate
Certificates will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of their internships and on submission of their Report/ Paper and its evaluation by the Head of the concerned Division.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a graduate in Humanities/ Mass Communication/ Journalism/ Designing/ Anthropology/ History/ Art/ Archaeology Science/ Languages/ Museology/ Fine Arts.
The age of the applicant should be less than or equal to 25 years as of 31st December of the year of the Internship.
Post Graduate / Research Students and Foreign Language Students are also eligible.
The applicant should have an excellent academic track record.
The applicant should preferably be from any recognized University in India.

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Research scholars with formal backgrounds in International Relations and Soft Power Projection will be given preference depending upon the requirement of ICCR.
The candidates with the highest marks are most likely to be called for Personal Interview.
Application Process
Online
Interested students can email their applications in the prescribed format to: directoradmin.iccr@gov.in with a copy to spdadmn.iccr@gov.in
(Dy. Director General, Administration, ICCR, Azad Bhavan, IP Estate, New Delhi)
Documents Required
At the time of application,
Curriculum Vitae (CV)
Permission letter from their Supervisor/ Head of Department (in case the applicant is interested to join an internship during their coursework).
 
At the end of the internship,
A detailed report on the work carried out.
A presentation on the work carried out (if required).
