Safai Karmakaar Putr/Putri Cycle sahayata yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentFree BicycleVehicle
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakaar Putr/Putree Cycle Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 27 August 2015. The main objective of the scheme to empower the unorganized worker son/daughter worker through provide them free cycle. 

Benefits
A free of cost cycle will be provided. 
Eligibility
The applicant's father/mother must be a registered sanitation worker in the state of Chhattisgarh.
The applicant must be studying in a recognized school or college.
The applicant must not have received bicycle assistance under any other government scheme earlier.
Benefits will be provided only for two children. 
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Application form.
Identity card of the applicant (Aadhaar card, voter ID card, or driving license).
Residence certificate of the applicant's father/mother.
Registration certificate of the applicant's father/mother as a sanitation worker.
Marksheet of the applicant's previous class.
