Market Support Scheme for Smaller Business Units
Goa
BusinessCompanyExhibitionMarketReimbursement
Details
Launched in 2018, the "Market Support Scheme for Smaller Business Units" is one of the "Information Technology Policy Schemes" by the Department of Information Technology, Government of Goa. The objective and the scope of this scheme is to provide Market Support to the eligible Information Technology Units in the State of Goa. A reimbursement of 50% of the exhibition rental cost for will be provided for participating in national/ international exhibitions, limited to 9 square meters of space. The scheme has been framed as a part of Goa's IT Policy that envisages Goa as an aspirational geographical and human resource base for IT Units and a preferred destination for their investment and expansion.

Benefits
A reimbursement of 50% of the exhibition rental cost for will be provided for participating in national/ international exhibitions, limited to 9 square meters of space, subject to approval by the Government.
NOTE 1: The benefits under this scheme are subject to budgetary allocation. No Promissory Estoppel shall be applicable if benefits are discontinued in case the allocation is exceeded.
NOTE 2: Pre-approval from the Committee is required prior to attending an exhibition in order to claim a reimbursement.
Eligibility
1. All the new and existing units must have their operations in Goa.
2. The applicant must be one of the below:
Proprietorship Firm
Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Public Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Registered Partnership Firm incorporated under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (or equivalent)
Limited Liability Partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (or equivalent)
4. The bank accounts of the unit and/or its partner(s)/director(s) should be linked to Aadhaar.
5. Pre-approval from the Committee is required prior to attending an exhibition in order to claim a reimbursement.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Web Portal of Goa Online. At the top right corner, click "Register".
Step 2: On the next page, verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form. Create a Login Name and a strong Password. Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 4: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 5: In the top ribbon, click on "Services", then click on "IT Services". Click on the name of the scheme. You will be taken to the application form for the scheme. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: Submit the application. A unique registration number will be generated. Note this number for future reference.
NOTE 1: The applicant can apply for this scheme on a quarterly/bi-annually/annual basis after incurring the relevant expenditure. 
NOTE 2: Application should be submitted 60 days prior to attending an exhibition. Decision regarding pre-approval will be issued within 30 working days.

Disbursement Timeline
Incentive Application Receipt: D
Application scrutiny as per checklist: D+30days
Application approval by the Empowered Committee: D+60 days
Issue of Regret Letter/Sanction Orders and Disbursement: D+90 days
Documents Required
Common Documents Required at the Time of Pre-Approval
1. Copy of Incorporation Certificate.
2. Copy of New Unit Registration Document/Certificate.
3. Copies of PAN, Aadhaar, and GST TIN.
4. Memorandum and Articles of Association.
5. Copy of the First Bill Generated, showing the date of commencement of operations or other relevant documents.
6. Brochures and other Information Material of the Exhibition(s) for which approval is being sought. The document should show rental charges.
Additional Documents Required to Claim Reimbursement
1. Certificate of Participation for the said event.
2. Proof of Payment of Rental Charges.
Other Documents
1. Udyog Aadhaar.
