NPC Students Internship Program
Ministry Of Commerce And Industry
IndustryInternshipPostgraduationStudent
Details
The National Productivity Council (NPC) of the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion Ministry of Commerce & Industry provides internship training to students pursuing graduation and post-graduation. The interns shall be given exposure to related interventions being activities undertaken by NPC’s which will provide opportunities to learn and implement new concepts as well as develop new skills and gain a deeper understanding of IT-enabled interventions through the hands-on application of the knowledge students learned during their course curriculum.

Areas
Industrial Engineering (IE), Environment Management(EN), Energy Management(EM), Agribusiness Services(AB), Economic Services(ES), Information Technology (IT) and Advanced Manufacturing & Industry 4.0.

Duration
The internship duration shall be for a period of two months.
The internship program shall be effective from the first week of June.
The internship period may be extendable, if required, on an individual case-to-case basis for a further mutually agreed duration.

Benefits
Certificate
The interns will be issued an internship completion certificate upon successful completion and submission of the full project report.

Logistics & Support
NPC shall provide them with working space with an internet facility and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned reporting authorities.
NOTE: The Interns will be required to bring their own laptops.

Boarding & Lodging
The Interns will be required to make their own arrangements towards transportation.

Remuneration
The selected interns shall not be entitled to any financial remuneration/stipend during their internship period. 
No payment towards a stipend, transportation etc. shall be paid to the interns by NPC.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should not already have applied for the internship before in the current financial year.
The applicant should be a student pursuing graduation and post-graduation studies.

Only for Interns in Information Technology (IT)
Job Requirements
Strong editing, written and oral communication skills.
Strong interpersonal skills.
Proactive technical troubleshooting and problem-solving skills.
Knowledge and understanding of learning patterns and strong Research and networking for generating quality learning material.
Knowledge of current and emerging eLearning tools and applications.
Expertise in graphics creation for classroom-based training, online training, and websites.
Desired Skills
Proficiency in the Microsoft Office Suite (i.e. Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Outlook), Adobe Photoshop and/or Adobe In Design 
Proficient in graphic designing tools such as Adobe Photoshop, Corel Draw, Illustrator, Ink Shape & related software knowledge
Proficient in programming, data/ content management, and website development with Java, .NET, JavaScript or HTML/DHTML. 
The overall work may also include leveraging leading technologies like SAS, Big Data, Hadoop, Hive, Pig, Python, SQL, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Data Annotation Services.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The eligible and interested students should submit the duly filled and signed application form as per the prescribed format, along with the required documents (self-attested) to the college/institution. The Applicant should specifically mention the duration for which she/he wishes to undertake an internship.
Step 2: The college/institution should send the applications of interested applicants to - 
Director (HRM), National Productivity Council, New Delhi - 110003
Documents Required
To be Submitted along with the Application
Curriculum Vitae (CV).
Letter from their Supervisor/ Head of Department/Principal, indicating their "No Objection" Certificate (allowing their student to undergo an Internship programme for the period for which she or he is selected).

To be Submitted at the end of the Internship
A project/assignment report/paper to the concerned Head(s) regarding their learning experience.
