Theka Shramik, Gharelu Mahila Kamgar Evan Hamaal Shramik Ke Bachcho Hetu Chhaatravrtti Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EducationScholarship
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Theka Shramik, Gharelu Mahila Kamgar Evan Hamaal Shramik Ke Bachcho Hetu Chhaatravrtti Yojana" for unorganized worker on 11 March  2015. The main objective of the scheme to provides financial assistance to the children of sanitation workers in India for higher education.

Benefits
Financial assistance provided according to the below table
Classes Boy Students  (Annual Scholarship amount) Girl Students (Annual Scholarship amount)
Class I to V ₹ 500/- ₹ 750/-
Class VI to VIII ₹ 750/- ₹ 1,000/-
Class IX to XII ₹ 1,000/- ₹ 1,500/-
Graduation ( BA, BSe, BCom) ₹ 1,500/- ₹ 2,000/-
Post Graduation (MA , MSe, M.Com, Diploma) ₹ 2,500/- ₹ 3,000/-
Pursuing graduate level professional course ₹ 3,000/- ₹ 4,000/-
Studying for professional level, doing PhD or research work ₹ 4,000/- ₹ 5,000/-
Eligibility
The applicant's father/mother must be a registered sanitation worker in the state of Chhattisgarh.
Benefits will be provided only up to two children. 
Scholarship recipients must study for at least one year and cannot stop studying. If they do, they must return the scholarship.
Students cannot receive benefits from two government scholarship schemes simultaneously.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Scholarship application form
Student's birth certificate
Mark certificate of previous year exam.
