Internship Programme Of The Department Of Expenditure
Ministry Of Finance
EconomicsExpenditureFinanceInternship
Details
The Internship Programme of the Department of Expenditure aims to familiarize willing and eligible undergraduates pursuing five-year integrated courses and Graduates pursuing post-Graduation/ post-Graduates pursuing Research with the overall process of formulation of economic policies of the Government. The internship is neither a job nor any such assurance for a job in the Department of Expenditure.

Duration
The duration of the internship will be from two to six months at different points in time during the financial year.

Declaration of Secrecy
Interns will be required to furnish to the Department a declaration of secrecy before reporting for the Internship.

Logistics Support
Interns will be provided with the necessary logistics support i.e. office space and a computer with an internet facility.

Placement
The interns would be attached with one of the DS/Director level officers in the different Divisions of the Department of Expenditure keeping in view the areas of interest expressed by the candidates and as per the preference of that Division.

Benefits
Remuneration
Token Remuneration @ ₹ 10,000/- per month per intern, payable on satisfactory completion of their internships and on submission of their Report / Paper.

Certificate of Internship 
Certificates will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their Report/Paper and its evaluation by the DS/Director level officer in the concerned Division.
Eligibility
Indian national pursuing postgraduation Research Courses in Economics/Finance/Management and in the 4th and 5th year of 5-year integrated Course in Law/any other professional course from Universities/Institutions of National and International repute are eligible to apply for the internship provided - 
Students pursuing post-graduate courses should have obtained a first-class Graduate degree.
Research Scholars Pursuing courses in Economics/Finance/Management, should have obtained at least 50% marks in Post-Graduation.
Students in the af a 5h year of the 5 year integrated Law course should have obtained at least 80% marks in their 12th Class examination.
Application Process
Offline
Interested and eligible students are to send their applications, along with their CVs in the enclosed proforma to - 
Section Officer (Admn-l), Department of Expenditure, Room No.264-B, North Block, New Delhi.
Documents Required
While applying for the Internship - 
Passport Sized Photograph
The applicants are also required to submit a write-up, in their own hand and duly signed, not exceeding 500 words, on why they would consider this programme useful and how it fits in with their career growth.

At the end of the Internship - 
The interns will be required to present to the Head of the Division a Report/Paper on the allotted subject at the end of the internship.
Simultaneously, they will also be required to give to the concerned HOD their mandatory feedback on their experience of the Programme,
monitoring and supervision by the Director/JS concerned.
