Promotion of Energy Audit and Conservation of Energy (PEACE): Awareness Programme
Tamil Nadu
AuditAwarenessBusinessEnergyMSMEProgramme
Details
"Promotion of Energy Audit and Conservation of Energy (PEACE)" is a scheme by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu. The scheme comprises four main components: Awareness Programme; Training Programme; Detailed Energy Audit; and Implementation of Energy Audit Recommendations. The "Awareness Programme" component of this scheme is introduced to make the MSMEs understand that the energy audit and conserving energy is a critical issue that is of great importance to the financial performance and competitiveness of their enterprise.

Implementing Agency
The programme will be organized by GM, DICs/RJD, Chennai in coordination with MSMEs Associations, Product Associations, Clusters, and other Stakeholders. Wherever possible the awareness programs may be organized for a sector/ cluster.

Benefits
Objective
The program will make the MSMEs understand that the energy audit and conserving energy is a critical issue that is of great importance to the financial performance and competitiveness of their enterprise.

Schedule
The program, designed for one day, will be based on the needs and requirements of MSMEs. The training content will be standardized by the Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce in consultation with relevant agencies.

Resource Persons 
The Resource Persons are preferably drawn from organizations such as the Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), India SME Tech Services Ltd (SIDBI), National Productivity Council (NPC), BEE, TERI, etc., which are promoted by Government Departments.
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) accredited Energy Auditors/Managers with rich experience in energy audits, energy management & conservation, and BEE empaneled Energy audit firms/companies, may also be engaged.

Fund Allocation
At least one awareness programme in each district at a cost not exceeding ₹ 1,00,000 per programme.
Eligibility
The target audience includes executives, employees, and workers of MSMEs, as well as cluster members.
The ideal size for the awareness program is 40-50 participants, although in industrially backward districts, the batch size may be smaller. 
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu. In the top ribbon, click "Login / Registration".
In the registration form, fill in the mandatory details accurately, Name, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Number, Email ID, and Mobile Number. Create a new password. The password must contain a minimum of 8 characters, 1 Upper Case Letter, 1 Lower Case Letter, and 1 Numeric Field.
Fill in the captcha code, and click "Register".

Step 2: Login
Visit the Login Page and click "Login", and then fill in the credentials received on your registered Email ID and the registered Mobile Number.

Step 3: Form Filling
After successfully logging in, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click on the concerned scheme from the dropdown.
On the next page, hover over "Apply Online" in the top ribbon, and then click on "New Application" from the dropdown.
Fill in all the mandatory fields of the Application Form. Carefully review all the information provided, acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy, and then click "Proceed".
Note down the reference number appearing on the screen and then click "Close".

Step 4: Upload Documents
Now, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click "Upload Documents" from the dropdown.
On the next page, provide the Application ID and click "Submit".
On the next page, upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size.
After uploading the documents, click "View" to verify the documents uploaded for correctness.

Step 5: Submission
Fill in all the checkboxes appearing at the bottom of the screen and then click "Submit Application".
The message regarding the submission of the online application to GM/DIC / RJD will be received on your mobile phone.

(Optional) Step 6: Track Application Status
You can check the status of your application here. The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.
Documents Required
Copy of Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum / Copy of Udyam Certificate.
Certificate of Registration under Indian Partnership Act / LLP / Societies Registration Act / Certificate of Incorporation [Memorandum of Association & Article of Association] under Company Act.
Proof for Connected Load i.e., EB Meter Card/Online Statement.
If Alternate Source of Energy [other than Electricity] Used, Proof for the Usage.
Documents for Engagement of Energy Auditor/Letter of Acceptance from Energy Auditor.
If the Energy Auditor is Employed in a Firm/Co., or Partner or Director of a Firm/Co., Then Proof for the Same.
Copy of Accreditation of Energy Auditor by Bureau of Energy Efficiency [BEE].
Self-Certified Statement on Expenditure Incurred for Energy Audit with Copy of the Bills/Vouchers and Receipt, etc.
Copy of the Detailed Energy Audit Report.
*The file type should be PDF (.pdf). The file size should be less than 200 kb.
