Research Grant For In-Service Faculty Members
Ministry of Education
FellowshipResearch
Details
The scheme "Research Grant for In-Service Faculty Members" was introduced by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education (DoHE). The objective of this research grant is to provide opportunities to regularly appointed faculty members of Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges (hereinafter “Institutions”) to pursue research in their area(s).

Benefits
Tenure: 2 years.
Slots: 200 or as may be decided by the Commission

Financial Assistance:
(i) The quantum of support under the scheme is ₹ 10,00,000.
(ii) The grant can be utilized for purchasing items like minor equipment, consumables, contingencies, fieldwork, travel, etc.
(iii) The grant cannot be used for international travel, purchasing furniture items, or for appointing a project assistant or research fellow.
(iv) The quantum of funds under these heads can be decided by the recipient depending on his / her needs.
(v) The items/equipment purchased from this grant shall be the property of the University.

Release of Grants:
The grant will be released in 3 installments to the university. 
(i)   Initially, 50% of the grant will be released on receipt of the joining report (Annexure-I). 
(iii)   The next installment of 25% of the research grant shall be paid on submission of the utilization certificate (Annexure-II) of the first installment. 
(ii)   The final installment of 25% of the research grant shall be released on a reimbursement basis on submitting the claims and utilization certificate of the second installment. 
However, the tenure to utilize the whole grant shall be 2 years from the release of the first installment of the research grant.
Eligibility
(i) Faculty members regularly appointed and working in the following institutions are eligible to apply under the schemes:
(a)   Universities (including constituent and affiliated colleges/institutions) are included under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956, and have valid accreditation from NAAC.
(b)   Deemed to be Universities under Section 3 of the UGC Act 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
(c)   Institutions fully funded by Central or State Governments and empowered to award Degrees.
(d)   Institutions of National Importance.
(ii) The age of the applicant should not be greater than 50 years. (Faculty above 50 years of age is not eligible to apply).
(iii) The applicant should have a minimum of 10 years of service left in the University from the date of submission of his / her application.
(iv) The applicant must have successfully supervised a Ph.D. dissertation of 5 full-time candidates
(v) The applicant must have successfully completed at least 2 sponsored research projects funded by national/international government or private agencies.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded to the UGC website i.e. www.ugc.ac.in

Step 1: Read the Guidelines 
This is the home page of the website: https://frg.ugc.ac.in/
● 5 schemes are displayed on the Homepage.
● Under each scheme, UGC guidelines are available. Before applying, kindly read the guidelines carefully and ensure your eligibility.

Step 2: Registration
● On the homepage, for registration, click on “New User” for the scheme you need to apply.
● Here, you need to fill in all the details for registration and provide an email address that will be used for all future correspondence.
● Please keep ready a scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB, format: jpg), before registration.
● The details provided at the registration stage will not be modified, after submission. It will be reflected in the Profile.
● Click on the ‘Submit’ button, after filling in all details. 

Step 3: Login
● After registration, you will receive an email from ugchelp@mail.inflibnet.ac.in with the Scheme Login Credentials to fill out the application form.
● You need to fill in the received login credentials
● Please change the password while logging in for the first time. Remember the new password, thereafter.

Step 4: Dashboard
● The details provided by you during Registration are now available in Profile.
● Various icons displayed here will be shown in red color before complete details are entered. Once all details are filled in and submitted, the color of the icons will change to green.
● Here, you need to click on the “Eligibility Criteria” button.

Step 5: Eligibility alert
● Read all the criteria and click on the check box next to UGC guidelines. 

Step 6: Eligibility 
● Please provide all the required details here.
● Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted from the parents on an affidavit of ₹ 100/-
stamp paper duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Tahsildar as per the prescribed proforma. 
In case, the parents are not alive, the affidavit can be submitted by the guardian of the Candidate. (Size: less than 1 MB)
● Kindly note that, once submitted, the eligibility form will not be modified.
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Step 7: Data Capturing Format 
After that, you click on the “Apply Now” box (see on rectangle)
Here, Data Capturing Dashboard will display where you need to fill in PG and Ph.D. details
Click on the PG Educational Qualification box

Step 8: PG details
● Provide PG details
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 9: Ph.D. Details
● Provide Ph.D.-related details and upload the required documents 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 10: Declaration
● Please read the declaration carefully.
● If you agree with the declaration, click on the check box next to “I Agree with above” 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Please save your application for future use.

Note: No hard copies of the application form will be accepted or entertained at any point of time
Documents Required
Scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB, format: jpg).
Complete Research proposal (size upto 5 MB) and an abstract (size upto 1MB)
After filling out the application form, an auto-generated form will be displayed on your screen. Please take the printout of the same, get it signed by the HoD/Registrar, and upload it before submitting the application form.
Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted from the parents on an affidavit of Rs. 100/- stamp paper duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Tahsildar as per the prescribed proforma. In case, the parents are not alive, the affidavit can be submitted by the guardian of the Candidate (Size: less than 1MB)
For every Fellowship/Scholarship/Research Grant scheme of UGC, the beneficiary will have to submit feedback in the form of a report on the research work done on the web portal.
After completion of the research work, the Institution concerned shall submit the summary of the awardee’s research work along with the published research papers. 
