Financial Assistance to Revive, Preserve and Protect Goan Maand Culture
Goa
ArtCultureFolkLoreMusic
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance to Revive, Preserve and Protect Goan Maand Culture” by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa has been designed with the objective of encouraging Goan Folk artists to revive, preserve and protect the Goan Maand culture consisting of folk forms viz. Zagor, Ranmalle, Kallo, Perni Zagor, Talgadi, Tonyamell, Shigmo, Challe, Naman, Jatigayan, Goff, Dhallo-Fugadi and folklore and folk music viz. Suvarivadan, Ghumatvadan, Shamelvadan, Dholvadan and any other folk forms, folklore and folk music as selected by the committee of experts which basically originated from Goan Maand.

Objectives
To revive, preserve and protect the Goan Maand culture that has produced various folk art forms and folk music and folklores in the State of Goa. 
To maintain bonding of unity integrity and brotherhood amongst the villagers to uplift the cultural bondage and carry the tradition for future generations. 
To provide necessary infrastructure and financial support for the purpose. 
To preserve and protect the old age traditions of Maand culture to its unique original form, keeping the Maand culture authentic, and intact by providing all kinds of infrastructure to the Maand group within the ambit of cultural structure. 
To support existing Maand groups that are on the verge of extinction. 
To create cultural interaction between village to village in the form of a village exchange programme. 
To create a legacy of Maand artists through folk programmes at State, National and International levels.

Benefits
Nature and Quantum of Assistance

The honorarium to Maand Guru/Trainer shall be ₹ 9,000/- per month. 
The honorarium to the Assistant shall be ₹ 6,000/- per month. 
The stipend to trainees shall be ₹ 1,500/- per month. (Each Maand group may consist of at least thirty artists/trainees). 
Financial assistance of ₹ 50,000/- will be provided to purchase folk instruments (a list of the required musical instruments should be attached). 
Financial assistance of ₹ 40,000/- will be provided towards the upkeep of Maand culture (repairs of old musical instruments and Maand place). 
Financial assistance upto ₹ 60,000/- to purchase costumes and drapery for the performance. 
(The exact quantum will be decided by the committee of experts as per the requirement). 
Financial assistance of ₹ 25,000/- will be provided to upkeep and maintain the place of Maand. (daily cleaning and floor maintenance). 

[NOTE: The Financial Assistance provided in point 4,5,6, and 7 above shall be for the duration of the training course.] 
Eligibility
The Maand group should have a legacy of practising folk art forms for at least the past thirty years at such a traditional Maand place. 
The applicants who desire to join training under this scheme shall not be less than 10 years of age. Whereas any old age folk artist in the course of training could share their experience and guide the new generation with kind co-operation from Maand Guru. 

Relaxation / Preference / Priority
Preference will be given to those Goan Maand culture which are on the verge of extinction.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the ACO-I, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404640, Email: aco3-dac.goa@nic.in
Documents Required
An undertaking whether their village Maand is still in existence or not.
No Objection Certificate from the concerned Devasthan/ Maand is to be obtained by the Maand group while applying under the scheme. 
Copy of Registration Certificate (if registered).
Affidavit. 
Village Maand Details.
If any grant was sanctioned in preceding years, an Original/ Copy of the Utilization Certificate may be submitted. 
Bank details (only Nationalized or scheduled bank details to be submitted). 
List of folk instruments presently in possession. 
List of the artists interested in training under the Maand scheme. 
