Merit Based Award and Recognition Of High Performance In The Board Exams Of SSC And HSSC In The State Of Goa
Goa
EducationMeritScheduled TribeSchoolStudent
Details
The Department of Tribal Welfare, Government of Goa is implementing a scheme titled ‘Merit-Based Award and Recognition of High Performance in the Board exams of SSC and HSSC in the state of Goa’ for Scheduled Tribe Students. The objective of this scheme is to motivate students by giving Merit Based Award on the benchmark of performance and to provide financial incentives to high-performing students who are economically weak. Any Scheduled Caste student who has passed Class 10th and Class 12th, securing 50% and above marks will be given a financial award. The scheme aims to increase the representation of the ST Community in the High-Rank holders are very few in the Class 10th and Class 12th.

Benefits
Felicitation of Rank Holders Students - 
₹ 20,000/- to the First Five Rank Holders (separately for all the streams of Science, Commerce, Arts and Vocational).
A certificate of Appreciation will be given at the time of felicitation in the public function.

Merit-Based Awards - 
₹ 5,000 awarded to the students who have scored 50% to 59.99% marks.
₹ 8,000/- awarded to the students who have scored 60% to 60.99% marks.
₹ 10,000/- awarded to the students who have scored 70% to 74.99% marks.
₹ 15,000/- awarded to the students who have scored 75% & above marks.
Eligibility
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Tribe (ST) in the State of Goa.
The applicant should have secured 50% or above marks in the SSC/ HSSC Board exams.
(For Merit Based Award) The annual income of the family of the applicant should be less than ₹ 5,00,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the Goa Scholarship Portal.
Step 2: Register yourself on the portal by providing your Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, and other details.
Step 3: Sign In to the Portal using the credentials received on your Email ID / Mobile Number.
Step 4: In the portal, browse the Online Application Form for "Merit Based Award and Recognition of High Performance in the Board Exams of SSC and HSSC".
Step 5: In the Online Application Form, fill in all the mandatory details, upload the mandatory documents in the mentioned file type and filesize.
Step 5: Click the "Submit" icon at the bottom to submit the form.
Step 6: Upon successful submission of the application, a pop-up box will be displayed showing the Application Reference ID. The same will also be received over the Registered Email ID and the Registered Mobile Number. Save this Reference ID for future reference.
Documents Required
1. Copy of Caste Certificate Issued by Competent Authority.
2. Copy of Income Certificate Issued by Competent Authority.
3. Copy of Mark Sheet.
4. Receipt of Fees Paid.
5. Copy of Bank Pass Book.
6. Copy of Aadhar Card Along With Consent Form.
