KSCSTE Post-Doctoral Fellowship Programme
Kerala
FellowFellowshipPost-DoctoralResearchScientist
Details
KSCSTE Post-Doctoral Fellowships will be provided to those who possess a Ph.D. in science and engineering with high-quality research publications in SCI journals. The program aims to encourage Ph.D. holders to pursue further research and to develop careers as scientists. Selection of candidates through screening cum selection committee after evaluating the quality of the proposal, presentation, discussion, details of publications, academic records/recognitions, etc. The Post-Doctoral Fellowship can be availed for research in an institution other than the department or institute in India where the candidate has undergone Ph.D. work.
Objectives of the scheme:
To support the research aptitude of Doctorate holders in Science & Technology.
To motivate Ph. D holders to pursue research and to develop careers as scientists.
To motivate fellows and impart the skills needed for them to become lifelong learners and to develop technical and leadership skills.
Necessary conditions as per the scheme:
There should be a Scientist Mentor who is a regular faculty/staff of the institution under whose guidance the researcher should carry out the work. The Scientist Mentor should have at least 5 or more years of service left in the Institution before retirement. The Scientist Mentor should constantly monitor the progress of the project, facilitate smooth implementation of the programme and ensure timely submission of financial utilization certificates by the institute to KSCSTE.
Post-Doctoral Fellow availing financial assistance/stipend from other State/Central funding agencies or other sources will not be simultaneously eligible for KSCSTE Post-Doctoral Fellowship. The Post-Doctoral Fellow should furnish an undertaking to the effect that He/She is not availing financial assistance/stipend from any other source simultaneously.
The implementing Institute should provide full infrastructural facilities such as a laboratory, computer, library, communication, accommodation, water, electricity, etc. for smooth implementation of the project.
The unutilized portion of the grant (along with the interest accrued) at the end of the project period should be refunded to Council by DD in favor of Member Secretary, KSCSTE
Scientists who publish technical/scientific papers based on the research work done under the project should acknowledge the assistance received from KSCSTE.
The Post-Doctoral Fellow should not enter into collaboration with a foreign party (individual/ industry) without prior approval of the Council.

Benefits
The scheme offers a Post-Doctoral Fellowship of ₹45,000/- + 10 % HRA per month along with an annual contingency grant of ₹75,000/-.
The duration of the Fellowship is limited to a maximum of 2 years.
Eligibility
1. Applicant should be a Permanent Resident of Kerala.
2. Applicant should have scored a minimum of 60% marks for post-graduation.
3. Applicant should have qualified Ph.D. in Science/Engineering subjects.
4. Applicant should not be a permanent employee at the time of application for the scheme.
5. Age limit: 40 years - (relaxed for 3 years for OBC and 5 years for SC/ST candidate).
6. Those who have availed Post-Doctoral Fellowship earlier from KSCSTE or elsewhere are not eligible to apply for KSCSTE Post-Doctoral Fellowship.
7. Applicant should have published at least one research paper in a SCI Journal/secured patent.
8. Those who have already availed of one Post-Doctoral Fellowship from KSCSTE or elsewhere are not eligible to apply.
9. Applicant should have chosen an institution as a research Centre subject to the following:
The Research Centre should not be the same as Ph.D Research Centre.
Research Centre should preferably be in Kerala, [however, premier National Institutions viz., IISER, IIT, IISc etc. outside the State shall also be considered].
Tenable in Government Institutions only.
Tenable only in R&D institutions (National/State level) or University Departments.
Application Process
Online
Eligible applicants may apply online in the KSCSTE web portal for New applications at the following link: https://submit.kscste.kerala.gov.in
Scrutiny of the Application:
Preliminary scrutiny of the application is carried out for verification of basic eligibility conditions and supporting documents.
Peer review:
All eligible applications are subjected to peer review by five subject experts (3 within &2 outside the state) in the relevant area of research. Proposals with at least three reviews graded greater than 5 (on 10 point scale) are only considered for further processing.
Presentation before Expert Committee:
Proposals that have passed the peer review requirements will be invited for presentation before the Programme Advisory Committee. One or two reviewers will serve as additional Subject Expert during the PAC meeting. On favorable recommendation by the PAC, the proposal will be considered for funding by KSCSTE. The applicants will be informed of the decision and will be asked to execute an Agreement as per the guidelines of the scheme.
Contact Details:
Scientist-in-charge (KSCSTE-PDF),
Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram - 695004
Tel: +91-471-2548402,
Email: jaya.kscste@kerala.gov.in
For queries:
E-mail: jaya.kscste@kerala.gov.in,
Tel: 0471- 2548402
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Photo of applicant
3. Proof of Date of Birth (Those who claim age relaxation should submit proof on reservation category)
4. Proof of Permanent Residency in Kerala
5. Marks Sheet and Certificate of PG
6. Certificate of Ph.D
7. Work & Research Experience certificate
8. Reprints of latest Research Publications (Full-length paper)
9. Biodata of Scientist Mentor - (Not to exceed 2 pages)
10. Research Proposal- Technical Information
11. List of Publications
12. Declaration by the Applicant
13. Consent from Scientist Mentor
14. Endorsement from the Head of Host Institution
