Mukhyamantri Noni Babu Medhavi Shiksha Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EducationFinancial AssistanceStudent
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Mukhyamantri Noni Babu Medhavi Shiksha Sahayata Yojana" for Building and other construction worker on 06 January 2012. The main objective of the scheme to provides financial assistance for education.

Benefits
The award assistance mentioned against each class/course will be payable in lump sum.
From Class 10th to 12th : ₹ 5,000/- for Male student and ₹ 5,500/- Female Students.
All Graduations : ₹ 7,000/- for Male student and ₹ 7,500/- Female Students.
All Post Graduations : ₹ 10,000/- for Male student and ₹ 10,500/- Female Students.
All Vocational Education and Professional Education : ₹ 12,000/- for Male student and ₹ 12,500/- Female Students.
For the top ten students in the state level examinations of class 10th and 12th conducted by the Chhattisgarh Board of Secondary Education : incentive amount of ₹ 1,00,000/- and a grant amount of ₹ 1,00,000/- for two wheelers.
For admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses in various fields, including engineering, medicine, law, nursing, pharmacy, polytechnic and IIIT : The entire academic fees for each academic session will be paid by the Board
Pursuing professional courses abroad : ₹ 50,00,000/- per academic session.
Eligibility
Only the first two children of registered construction workers in the state are eligible for the scheme's benefits.
The scheme's benefits will be disbursed only once per academic year.
If a student discontinues their studies before completing the program, the beneficiary must reimburse the entire tuition fee amount to the Board.
Students receiving financial assistance from any other source (including other Central or State Government schemes) for studying abroad are not eligible for this scheme.
Each academic year, the beneficiary can choose one beneficial provision for one class or professional course.
Class 10th to 12th, All Graduations, All Post Graduations and All Vocational Education and Professional Education :  
Marks should be more than 75%.
Registration should be done with the board 90 days in advance.
For the top ten students in the state level examinations of class 10th and 12th
In the state level examination, it will be payable only to the students who are in the first ten in merit
Registration should be done with the board 90 days in advance.
Undergraduate and postgraduate courses in various fields: 
There will be no compulsion of percentage/grade. 
Registration should be done with the board 90 days in advance.
Pursuing professional courses abroad
Educational assistance for studying abroad is contingent upon passing the relevant country's entry examination.
Application Process
Online
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Bhavan Evan Koi Sannirmaan"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Labor registration certificate issued by the Board.
Aadhar card (linked to mobile number).
Self-declaration certificate.
Employer's certificate of construction work experience.
Eligibility certificate for study abroad.
Marksheet of the previous year's class.
Fee receipts for professional courses.
Principal's certificate of current enrollment.
Merit certificate for class 10th or 12th.

Note:- Along with the online application, it will be mandatory to scan only the original documents and upload them online.
