Maulana Azad National Fellowship For Minority Students
Ministry Of Minority Affairs
FellowshipFinancial AssistanceHigher Studies
Details
Maulana Azad National Fellowship For Minority Students was launched in 2009 by the Ministry of Minority Affairs for providing financial aid to students for their higher studies. 

The objective of the Fellowship is to provide five year fellowships in the form of financial assistance to students from minority communities, notified by the Central Government, to pursue M. Phil and Ph.D.

The scheme covers all Universities/Institutions recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC) as under :
Central/State Universities (including constituent and affiliated institutions) included under Section 2(f) of UGC Act, 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
Deemed Universities under Section 3 of UGC Act, i.e., Institution for higher education notified by Central Government to be deemed University, in consultation with UGC and having and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
Institution fully funded by State / Central Government and empowered to award degrees.
Institutions of National Importance as notified by Ministry of Human Resource Development. 

Benefits
The rate of fellowship for JRF and SRF is at par with the UGC fellowship, presently the rates are as follows:
Fellowship in Science Humanities and Social Science:  ₹ 31,000/- p.m. for initial two years (JRF), and ₹ 35,000/- pm. for remaining tenure (SRF)
Fellowship in Engineering & Technology: ₹ 31,000/- p.m. for initial two years (JRF), and ₹ 35,000/- pm. for remaining tenure (SRF)
Contingency for Humanities & Social Sciences:  ₹ 10,000/- p.a. for initial two years, and ₹ 20,500/- p.a. for remaining tenure
Contingency for Sciences, Engineering & Technology:  ₹ 12,000/- p.a. for initial two years, and ₹ 25,000/- p.a. for remaining tenure
Escorts/Reader assistance (All subjects):  ₹ 2,000/- p.m. in cases of physically and visually handicapped candidate
Eligibility
The applicant should be a part of one of the minority communities (Buddhist, Christian, Jain, Muslim, Sikh, or Zoroastrian (Parsi)).
Applicant must qualify the UGC-NET or Joint CSIR-UGC NET examination.
If  applicant does not complete his/her research work during the period of fellowship shall not be eligible to apply again under this scheme.
If applicant completely or partially availed any fellowship earlier shall also not be eligible for fellowship under this scheme.
Employees of any university, college, educational institution, or central, state, or union territory government are not eligible for fellowships, even if they are on study leave or end of life (EOL) leave to pursue an M.Phil. or Ph.D. course
Application Process
Online
The candidates should apply and appear in UGC-NET / Joint CSIR-UGC Test for both i.e. Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) as well as Eligibility for Assistant Professor. 
This fellowship is awarded only through UGC-NET / Joint CSIR-UGC Test. 
Applicant have to visit the official portal https://nta.ac.in/ for UGC-NET and https://csirhrdg.res.in/ for CSIR-UGC.
For the candidates who had already taken admission into M.Phil / Ph.D while applying for the concerned UGC-NET/ Joint CSIR-UGC Test, the validity period of the offer is three months w.e.f. the date of issue of Award letter. 
Documents Required
The awardee needs to submit the following documents to the designated branch of the UGC designated Bank at the stipulated period interval. The approved Agency may verify the genuineness of records before releasing funds. 
At the end of every three months, the fellow shall submit a 'Continuation Certificate' in the prescribed proforma. Annexure-II. This will make the awardee eligible to draw the fellowship for the next three months.
After completion of one year of the award of fellowship, the concerned fellow/awardee shall submit and present its Progress Report in the proforma prescribed by the UGC as given in Annexure-III. 
The Fellow/awardee shall also submit and present accounts of contingency grants in the proforma prescribed by the UGC as given in Annexure-IV. 
Fellow/awardee shall submit and present its HRA Certificate in the prescribed proforma Annexure-V.
