Centrally-Sponsored Scheme Of Pre-Matric Scholarship For Scheduled Caste Students Studying In Classes 9th & 10th
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
Person With DisabilityPre MatricScheduled CasteScholarshipSocial WelfareStudent
Details
A scholarship scheme by Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment for regular, full-time students from Scheduled Castes studying in Class 9th and 10th in a Govt. School / a School recognized by Govt. / CBSE / State Board of Secondary Education.
The Total Annual income of parents/guardians of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 2.50 Lakh per Annum.
The scholarship for studying in any class will be available for only one year. The scholarship will be available for studying in India only. The scholarship will be awarded by the govt. of the state/UT to which the applicant belongs (domiciled).
ALL eligible Scheduled Caste candidates will be given scholarships as prescribed in this Scheme.

Benefits
Scholarship (₹ per month) (for 10 months in an academic year): ₹ 225 for Day Scholars, ₹ 525 for Hostellers.
Books and Ad hoc Grant (₹ per annum): ₹ 750 for Day Scholars, ₹ 1000 for Hostellers.

Additional Monthly Allowances for  Person with Disability (PwD) studying in private unaided Schools - 
Reader Allowance (for Blind students) – ₹ 160
Transport Allowance (if the students do not reside in the hostel which is within the premises of the Educational Institution) – ₹ 160
Escort Allowance (only for Severely Disabled Day Scholars / Students with low extremity disability) – ₹ 160 
Helper Allowance (admissible to any of the hostel willing to extend help to a severely orthopaedically handicapped student residing in the hostel of an Educational Institution who may need the assistance of a helper) – ₹ 160
Coaching Allowance to Mentally Retarded and Mentally ill Students – ₹ 240
Eligibility
The applicant must be a student.
The applicant must be studying in Class 9th or Class 10th.
The applicant must be from Scheduled Caste.
The Total Income of parents/guardian of the applicant must be less than or equal to ₹ 2.5 lakh per annum.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The application form (as prescribed by the State Govt. and made available on the website of the state govt.) complete in all respects should be submitted by the student to the Head of the Institution/School by 30th November of the academic year.

Step 2: The duly filled application forms received from the students shall be forwarded by the Head of Institution, after scrutiny and with his recommendation, to the Block / District level authorities.

Step 3: State Governments/UT Administrations will delegate powers to sanction scholarships under the scheme to appropriate District / Block level authorities/ Heads of Institution, as appropriate.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number.
One copy of the application for scholarship in the prescribed form.
One passport size photograph with signature of the student thereon (for fresh scholarship).
One self-attested copy of certificates, diploma, degree etc. in respect of all examinations passed.
A certificate of Caste duly signed by an authorized Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar.
Income declaration of the self-employed parents/guardian in the form of a certificate issued by Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar.
Income Certificate of the employed parents/guardian issued by their employer. 
A consolidated certificate of income of the employed parents/guardian from the Revenue Officer (only in case of any other additional source of income).
