Performance Linked Grant Scheme for Smaller Business Units
Goa
BusinessCompanyGrantInformation Technology
Details
Launched in 2018, the "Performance Linked Grant Scheme for Smaller Business Units" is one of the "Information Technology Policy Schemes" by the Department of Information Technology, Government of Goa. The objective and the scope of this scheme is to provide Performance Linked Grant to the eligible Information Technology Units in the State of Goa. A performance grant of 5% of the reported net income subject to a total cap of ₹ 25,00,000. The scheme has been framed as a part of Goa's IT Policy that envisages Goa as an aspirational geographical and human resource base for IT Units and a preferred destination for their investment and expansion.

Benefits
A performance grant of 5% of the reported net income, subject to a total cap of ₹ 25,00,000.
NOTE: The benefits under this scheme are subject to budgetary allocation. No Promissory Estoppel shall be applicable if benefits are discontinued in case the allocation is exceeded.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a Smaller Business Unit.
2. The applicant should have their operations in Goa.
3. The applicant should be one of the following:
Proprietorship Firm
Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Public Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Registered Partnership Firm incorporated under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (or equivalent)
Limited Liability Partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (or equivalent)
4. The bank accounts of the unit and/or its partner(s)/director(s) should be linked to Aadhaar.
5. The applicant should have had a record growth of 15% y-o-y turnover for a period of any three consecutive years during the operation of the policy.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Web Portal of Goa Online. At the top right corner, click "Register".
Step 2: On the next page, verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form. Create a Login Name and a strong Password. Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 4: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 5: In the top ribbon, click on "Services", then click on "IT Services". Click on the name of the scheme. You will be taken to the application form for the scheme. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: Submit the application. A unique registration number will be generated. Note this number for future reference.
NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme on a quarterly/bi-annually/annual basis after incurring the relevant expenditure. 

Disbursement Timeline
Incentive Application Receipt: D
Application scrutiny as per checklist: D+30days
Application approval by the Empowered Committee: D+60 days
Issue of Regret Letter/Sanction Orders and Disbursement: D+90 days
Documents Required
1. Copy of Incorporation Certificate.
2. Copy of new unit registration document/certificate.
3. Copies of PAN and Aadhaar.
4. Memorandum and Articles of Association.
5. Copy of first bill generated showing the date of commencement of operations or other relevant document.
6. Income Tax Returns of the Unit for all years covered in the period claimed in this application highlighting the net income and y-o-y growth.
7. Certified copy from the auditor or Chartered Accountant certifying the reported income for the period claimed in this application.
8. Udyog Aadhaar.
