Fee Waiver Scheme For SC/ST Students Pursuing Higher Education
Goa
EducationScheduled CasteScheduled TribeScholarshipStudent
Details
"Fee Waiver Scheme for SC/ST Students Pursuing Higher Education" is a Fee Waiver Scheme by the Department of Education, Art & Culture, Government of Goa. This Scheme is framed in order to provide free access to every SC/ST student, to the institutions of higher learning. It shall be the endeavour of the Government to see that no eligible SC/ST students are deprived of higher education for want of resources. The Scheme is operated by Directorate of Higher Education for the students pursuing the courses of General Education and by Directorate of Technical Education for students pursuing Technical Education at the degree and post graduate level.

Benefits
A full waiver of the fees supposed to have been paid by them in the institutions where they have sought admissions. 
The amount fee waiver shall consist of Tuition fees, Library fees, Laboratory fees and Development fees, if any.
NOTE: All other charges and fees would be borne by the concerned student.
Eligibility
The applicant should have been born in Goa or resident of Goa for at least last fifteen years.
The applicant should have passed his/her qualifying examination from any of the institutions located in Goa.
The applicant should belong to the SC/ST Community of Goa.
The applicant should be enrolled for the First Year of their Degree/PG Courses.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority at the institution.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 3: At the time of admission, submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: The concerned Institution shall process the applications of all such beneficiaries and sanction the fee waiver to them right at the time of admission itself.
Documents Required
Proof of Identity.
Caste Certificate.
Proof of Educational Qualification.
Proof of Enrolment into the First Year of Degree/PG Course.
Birth Certificate / Residential Certificate.
Fee Receipt of the Current Course Year.
