Financial Incentives To Mothers Who Deliver A Girl Child (Mamta)
Goa
BirthGirl ChildICDSMedical InstitutionMotherPregnant
Details
The scheme "Financial Incentives to Mothers who Deliver a Girl Child (Mamta)" is a scheme of Financial Assistance by the Directorate of Women And Child Development, Govt. of Goa. The objective of the Mamta Scheme is aimed at improving the Female Child Sex Ratio in the State. The scheme is open to all mothers who deliver a live Girl Child (max. 02 deliveries) in a registered medical institution. 

Implementing Agency
The scheme shall be implemented through the ICDS i.e. Child Development Project Officer, Mukhya Sevikas, and Anganwadi Worker at Taluka/Block Level and Viliage Level respectively.

Benefits
₹ 10,000/- as a one-time financial incentive (at the birth of the child).
Those beneficiaries who had applied for the 1st Installment of ₹ 5,000/- (as on the date of this Amended Scheme published in the Official Gazette) shall be eligible for ₹ 10,000/- as per the amended scheme.

NOTE 1: Those beneficiaries who were paid the 1st Installment of ₹ 5,000/- under the existing scheme shall be eligible for only the balance amount (2nd instalment) of ₹ 5,000/- (to apply within 45 days from the date of the Amended Scheme published in the official Gazette).

Mode of Disbursal
The benefits are directly credited to the declared Bank Account.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a mother who has delivered a live Girl Child in a registered medical institution.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for at least three years. OR
The applicant should be married to a resident of Goa.
The application for the scheme should have been made within 45 days of the delivery.
NOTE: The scheme is available to all mothers, irrespective of their social/economic status.
Application Process
Offline
The eligible mother shall apply in the prescribed format to the Child Development Project Officer of the ICDS Block Office of the respective Taluka at Anganwadi Centres.
NOTE: The application should be made within 45 days of the delivery of the Girl Child.
Documents Required
Certified/Self-Attested Copy of Aadhaar Card.
Certified/Self-Attested Copy of Birth Report/Certificate from Registered Institution.
Proof that the Applicant (the Mother) has been a Resident of Goa for at least 3 years OR Proof that the Applicant (the Mother) has been married to a resident of Goa (Marriage Certificate, and Residential Certificate of Husband).
Pre-Receipt in duplicate (Annexure-2) (For New Beneficiaries).
Pre-receipt in duplicate in (Annexure-3) (for those beneficiaries who were paid the 1st Installment under the old Scheme).
