BSR Scheme
Ministry of Education
FellowshipPhDResearchScience
Details
Introduction
The Research Fellowship in Sciences for meritorious students BSR scheme of the UGC is open to candidates who are selected for registering for the Ph.D. program of the university through a procedure outlined already in the UGC notification by a regular admission procedure. The registration for Ph.D. may follow after the admissions. 

Objectives
The objective of the BSR scheme is to provide opportunities to meritorious candidates to undertake advanced studies and research leading to Ph.D. degrees in sciences.

Eligibility
The candidates who are selected for registering to the Ph.D. program of the university through a procedure outlined already in the UGC notification by a regular admission procedure in Universities with Potential for Excellence/Centres with Potential for Excellence / Centres of Advance Studies and Department of Special Assistance identified by UGC. The registration for Ph.D. may follow after the admissions. 

Benefits
Financial Assistance

Fellowship 
For GATE/NET Qualified candidates:
JRF @ 24,800/-pm for 2 years; SRF@ Rs. 27,900 pm for the remaining period
For others:
JRF @ Rs. 21,700/- for 2 years; SRF @ Rs. 24,800/- pm for the remaining period

Contingency Contingency
@ Rs. 12,000/- pa for JRF; @ Rs. 25,000/- pa for SRF

HRA
i) Suitable hostel accommodation may be provided to the candidates in the institutions. In such cases, the fellow is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the Registrar/Director/Principal. HRA is not permissible for those candidates who are staying in Hostel accommodation.
ii) In case of non-availability of hostel accommodation, the fellow may be provided with single accommodation by the host institution. In such cases, the rent paid by the fellow on an actual basis may be reimbursed subject to the ceiling of HRA as per Govt. of India norms.
iii) If the fellow makes her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Govt. of India.

Medical
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the Fellow may avail the medical
facilities available in the University/Institution/College.

Leave
1.  Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to public holidays may be taken by the BSR Fellow with the approval of the Head of Department. However, they are not entitled to any other vacations, such as summer, winter, and pooja vacations.
2.  Candidates are eligible for maternity/ paternity leave at full rates of the fellowship as per The government of India rules once during the tenure of the award.
3. The fellow, in special cases, may be allowed by the Commission, academic leave without fellowship and contingency for a period not exceeding one year during the tenure of the award on the recommendation of the Head of the department of the institution concerned to undertake academic/ teaching assignment or foreign travel in connection with academic work. The expenditure on travel cannot be claimed from UGC. The period
of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure.
Eligibility
The candidates who are selected for registering to the Ph.D. program of the university through a procedure outlined already in the UGC notification by a regular admission procedure in Universities with Potential for Excellence/Centres with Potential for Excellence / Centres of Advance Studies and Department of Special Assistance identified by UGC. The registration for Ph.D. may follow after the admissions. 
Application Process
Online
Only those candidates who are selected for registering for the Ph.D. program of the university through a procedure outlined already in the UGC notification by a regular admission procedure in Universities with Potential for Excellence/Centres with Potential for Excellence / Centres of Advance Studies and Department of Special Assistance identified by UGC are eligible to apply for fellowship under the scheme. The registration for Ph.D. may follow after the admissions.
They will have to apply for Research fellowships at the identified Universities/Institutions. The selections would be made by the concerned institution as per the provisions contained in these guidelines.

The university shall select the Research Fellows under the scheme from amongst the eligible candidates through a process of interview by the Selection Committee with the following constitution:-
a) An eminent scientist to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor
b) Head of the Department
c) One Professor and one Reader from the department, to be nominated by the vice-chancellor
d) Two Experts from outside the university to be nominated by Vice-Chancellor, out of the Panel of names proposed by Head of the Department
Documents Required
The Fellow is required to approach the designated branch and submit the prescribed documents:
1.  Continuation certificate (to be submitted at the end of every three months)
2.  Yearly Progress Report (to be submitted after completion of one year of the fellowship)
3.  Accounts of contingency grants
4.  HRA certificate.
