Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowship
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgricultureFellowship
Details
“Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowship (NS-ICAR IF)” is a Fellowship Scheme by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. The objective is to develop competent human resource that are trained in the identified best laboratories in the world (for Indian candidates) and similarly expose overseas candidates to the best Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs) in the ICAR-AU system for creating a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future co-operation.

Objectives:
In its continued efforts towards enhancing and sustaining the standards, quality and relevance of higher agricultural education in the country, ICAR has instituted International Fellowships with dual purpose of:
(i) human resource development in cutting edge technologies, and 
(ii) demonstrating the strength of Indian agricultural system abroad. 

The fellowships are available to support Indian/ Overseas nationals for pursuing doctoral degree in agriculture and allied sciences, in the identified priority areas, to the:
1.  Indian candidates for study abroad in the identified overseas Universities/Institutions having strong research and teaching capabilities, and 
2.  Overseas candidates for study in the best Indian AUs in the ICAR-AUs system.

Benefits
Amount of Fellowship:
1.   To-and-fro, economy class air ticket for international travel, by the shortest route, from the airport, nearest to the residence/ workplace of the candidate to the airport, nearest to the destination University in respect of both Indian and Overseas candidates (Air tickets to be provided by the Council). 
2.   The overseas fellows will be entitled for economy-class-travel cost reimbursement from port of arrival in India to the destination University in India and back.
3.   For Indian candidates, the cost on travel from place of residence/work to the port of departure in India and from port of arrival to the destination University overseas will be met by the fellows themselves or by their sponsoring organization. 
4.   Amount payable to the International fellowship candidates: 
     a)   Ph.D.: Indian fellows going abroad
           Amount not exceeding: US$ 2,000/- per month
           Lump-sum payments towards contingent and preparatory expenses: US $ 1,000/- per year 
     b)   Ph.D.: Overseas fellows in India
           Amount not exceeding: INR 40,000/- per month
           Lump-sum payments towards contingent and preparatory expenses: INR 25,000/- per year
5.   The fellowship amount for the first six months, as first installment, will be released by the Council to the fellow through government notified/ approved bank to be deposited in the bank account of the fellow on receiving his/ her acceptance for the fellowship and admission letter received from the host University. 
6.   Thereafter, the amount of fellowship will be released to the fellow, every six months, after receiving the academic progress report from the fellow duly certified by the concerned advisor/ supervisor/ head of institution.
7.   The first installment to the Indian fellow will be paid in Indian Rupees only.
8.   The fellow will meet all other costs including medical insurance etc. from the above fellowship or from his/ her own resources. 
9.   During the tenure of fellowship, an in-service fellow may continue to receive his/her salary, types of leave and benefits etc. from the parent organization as per rules.

Tenure of Fellowship: 
The NS-ICAR IFs are available to Indian candidates as well as overseas candidates for a period of three years. 
The tenure of fellowship will not be extended in any case, in so far as the Council support is concerned. 
In case the fellow is not able to complete his/her degree during this period, he/she will use his/her own resources for completing the degree.
In case the fellow is not able to complete even after 2 years of the prescribed duration of the programme for which fellowship was sanctioned, the Council may take necessary steps, for the recovery of the fellowship paid.
Eligibility
Master’s degree in agriculture/allied sciences with an Overall Grade Point Average (OGPA) 6.60 out of 10.0 or 65% marks or equivalent will be the eligibility requirement for the NS-ICAR IFs. 
The fresh candidates should not be more than 35 years of age on the last date prescribed for receipt of applications. The upper age limit for In-service candidates will be 40 years on the last date for receipt of applications.
The fellowship would be available for both, fresh and in-service candidates. However, the fresh candidates should have completed their qualifying degree not more than two years before the specified date in the year of admission. The in-service candidates from India should be employed in the ICAR-AU system.
The Council will identify and announce the priority areas of research and the list of institutions for admission, one year in advance, for availing the Netaji Subhas- ICAR IFs.

Bank Guarantee and Service Bond:
Indian selected fellows shall provide an irrevocable Bank guarantee for an amount of US$ 10,000/- (equivalent in rupee currency) in favour of the Secretary, ICAR. The Bank guarantee should be valid for the entire duration till the successful completion of the programme. 
For foreign national selected fellows, an amount of ₹ 2,00,000 will be recovered from their fellowship grant as alternate of Bank guaranty, in terms of ₹ 1,00,000 each from first and second installment till successful completion of their Ph.D. study programme. This fellowship amount of Rs. 2,00,000 will be paid to the fellow at the time of final release of fellowship”.
The Indian in-service candidates selected for international fellowship shall execute a bond with the deputing University/Institute to undertake to serve that institution after the completion of degree for at least three years.

Eligibility for the Continuance of the Fellowship: 
The fellow will submit his progress report to the Council, through his/her adviser/supervisor/ head of the institution every six months. 
During the tenure of fellowship, the fellow should neither change the place of work nor deviate from the broad research area for which the fellowship is sanctioned. The selected candidates shall be required to submit an Undertaking to this effect and also for adherence to the other conditions of the guidelines regulating the fellowship as 
prescribed by the ICAR, with the acceptance of the International Fellowship.
The fellow will devote his/ her full time for his/ her chosen area of studies/ research work during the tenure of his/ her fellowship. 
Satisfactory progress in studies will be essential for the continuance of the fellowship during the period of study as reflected by the grades secured and certification by the advisor/ supervisor. 
In case of unsatisfactory performance in studies, or conduct probation, the fellowship will be terminated with immediate effect and the fellow will be required to meet the expenditure on remaining part of the programme from his/her own resources.
This fellowship is not meant for the conduct of training or to carry out research of short duration. 

Medical Fitness:
Selected fellow would be required to get his/ her medical fitness test and medical insurance done at his/her own cost. 

Payment of Fee: 
All fees chargeable by the host institution where the fellow is enrolled will be paid by the fellow himself out of the fellowship grant or from his/ her own resources.

IPR Issues: 
The fellow is expected to take proper measures to protect the Intellectual Property Rights likely to be generated during his/ her stay in the host institution. The Council will have the appropriate share on the patents/ knowledge generated by the fellow while pursuing the programme as specified under IP Management bulletin. If the fellow enters into any other IP agreement, the same will be appropriately shared with the Council. In all publications arising out of this work, the support from the Council should be duly acknowledged.

Completion Report:
Both Indian and Overseas fellows will have to submit within 15 days of their completion of the program, a copy of the dissertation/thesis and a brief report on the activities undertaken including any significant research contribution to the Council.

Non-return of Indian Fellows to India: 
The Indian Fellows have to return back to India after completion of the Ph.D. degree. If the fresh Indian Fellow is offered a suitable position in ICAR-AU system, he/she shall serve the ICAR-AU system. In case of non-compliance to these provisions, entire amount paid to the Fellow along with 10% overhead cost will be recovered by the Council from the Fellow himself or from his surety, failing which, the Indian Embassy in the host country will be informed to take appropriate action.
Application Process
Online
The applications for NS-ICAR IFs will be invited on annual basis through announcements published in Indian national newspapers and the notification on ICAR website “http://www.icar.org.in”. Indian diplomatic missions in foreign countries will also be informed through e-mails. The candidate should submit an application for the fellowship, on-line, in the prescribed format.

Step 1: Fill out the fellowship registration form at https://education2.icar.gov.in/FellowShip/registration.

Step 2: 
After login at https://education2.icar.gov.in/FellowShip/Loginfellowship.aspx and fill the following details  
User Details, Passport Details, Academic Qualification, Fellowships Selection, Work/Teaching Experience, Achievements, Details of Publications, Details of the Degree Programme, Referee Details, Proficiency in Language, Relatives Details, Remarks.
Step 3: The applicants for the ICAR-IF must obtain at their own level, an acceptance of their admission in the Ph.D. degree programmes with identified area of study at the identified Indian AUs in case of overseas applicants and the identified overseas institutions in case of Indian applicants. Such acceptance letters should preferably be enclosed with the application for the fellowship.
Step 4: After completely going through the application, you have to click on the “Final Submit” button so that your application is submitted.

Mode of Selection: 
The candidates will be evaluated based on parameters/weighted scale thereby taking into account the relevance of the area of study, the proposed research plan, academic records, achievements and past work experience of the candidate. 
The selection will be made on the basis of evaluation score and subsequent interview by a Selection Committee, constituted by the Council and duly empowered to judge the suitability of candidate with regard to the importance of the area of study and the proposed research plan. The Committee may also decide to conduct telephonic / teleconferencing interview for the purpose. The overseas candidates may even be interviewed by experts as identified by the Council who may be based in their home country.
The candidate should have clear record of good conduct all-through, duly certified by the Competent Authority of the University last attended or the present employer in case of in-service candidate. 
At the time of interview, the applicants must furnish a letter of acceptance for their admission in the respective degree programme at the University.
The in-service Indian candidates must also furnish deputation approval by their respective Director of ICAR Institutes/Vice-Chancellor of Agricultural Universities. 
Once selected, the candidates must register for the programme within one year from the date of issue of letter of fellowship award. In case of delay, the offer will get terminated automatically and no separate communication towards cancellation will be issued by the Council.
Documents Required
Passport Size Photo
Aadhaar Number
Proof of Identity
Proof of Residence
Proof of Age / DOB
Passport
Passing Certificate / Marksheet of the Latest Educational Qualification
No-Objection Certificate from the Employer (in case, the applicant is employed)
Details of Employer's Organization (Name, Address, Head of Organization) (in case, the applicant is employed)
Details of Awards/Honours/Scholarships like - Gold Medal, Best Thesis, NTS, JRF etc.
Experience Letters / Certificates
Details of Publications (Above NAAS rating of 4.0)
Details of the Ph.D. Degree Programme applied for (Discipline/subject, Name of the degree programme, Academic session and year of admission, Prescribed duration of the degree programme in years, Proposed area of study, Title of proposed research plan, Host University, name, address and contact person details, Acceptance letter for admission from Host University, Copy of research plan enclosed)
Self-Declaration by the Candidate
Certificate of Physical Fitness (By an authorized Medical Doctor)
Certificate of Proficiency in English (in case of overseas applicants)
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account
