Maintenance Allowance To Backward Class Students Under Training In Sainik Schools
Maharashtra
AllowanceNomadic TribesOther Backward ClassSchoolSocial WelfareVimukta Jatis
Details
The scheme “Maintenance Allowance to Backward Class Students Under Training in Sainik School” is a Scholarship Scheme by the Social Justice and Special Assistance Department, Government of Maharashtra. VJNT and SBC students are paid maintenance so that a maximum number of students can be admitted to Sainik School with a view to seeking admission in N.D.A.
The State Government introduced in 2003-04 the scheme to create self-employment for unemployed youths and students of VJNT and SBC who apply for Vocational Training. He will be given Vocational Training in Government I.T.I and undergo short-duration vocational training courses. The short-duration vocational courses will enable the youths to create their own employment in the service sector.

Benefits
The training fees ₹400/- to ₹2400/- (as per course) are paid to the concerned I.T.I. 
After completion of training, one Tool Kit of ₹1000/- is provided to the trainee through the concerned Govt. I.T.I.
Eligibility
1) The applicant should be a citizen of India.
2) The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Maharashtra.
3) The applicant should belong to Vimukta Jatis, Nomadic Tribes, or Special Backward Class.
4) The applicant should be studying in Classes 5th to 12th.
5) The applicant should be studying in a Sainik School recognized/approved by the Govt. of Maharashtra.
6) The applicant should not already be availing the benefits of the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website of Aaple Sarkar / Maha DBT.

Step 2: Click on "New Applicant Registration". Register using your Name, Mobile Number, and Email ID. Create a Username and Password. Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via OTP.

Note: The username should contain only alphabets and numbers. The username should be greater than 4 characters and less than 15 characters.

Note: Password Length should be a minimum of 8 characters and a maximum of 20 characters. Password must contain at least 1 UpperCase Alphabet, 1 LowerCase Alphabet, 1 Number, and 1 Special Character.

Step 3: Now visit Login Page and login using your Username and Password.
Documents Required
1) The applicant should be a citizen of India.
2) The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Maharashtra.
3) The applicant should belong to Vimukta Jatis, Nomadic Tribes, or Special Backward Class.
4) The applicant should be studying in Classes 5th to 12th.
5) The applicant should be studying in a Sainik School recognized/approved by the Govt. of Maharashtra.
6) The applicant should not already be availing the benefits of the scheme.
