Rajasthan Chief Minister's Relief Fund - Kargil Package
Rajasthan

Details
The Rajasthan Chief Minister's Fund- Kargil Package is a government scheme that was launched in 1999 to support the families of soldiers from Rajasthan who were killed or disabled during the Kargil War. 

Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the families of martyrs and disabled soldiers, including their children's education and medical treatment. The scheme also provides assistance to war widows and helps them become self-reliant by providing training and employment opportunities. The fund is managed by a committee headed by the Chief Minister of Rajasthan and includes senior government officials and representatives of ex-servicemen associations. The scheme is an initiative to honor the brave soldiers and their families who have sacrificed their lives for the country's safety and security.

Benefits
In case of death due to accident from 18.02.2019, an amount of Rs 1 lakh to the dependent of the deceased.
From 18.02.2019, in case of serious injury, assistance should be approved up to Rs 20,000 and keeping in view the seriousness of the injury to the ordinary injured.
Assistance is payable only on applying within a maximum period of 6 months from the date of accident.
In case of death of a seriously injured person in an accident while undergoing treatment, assistance is given on applying within a period of 6 months from the date of death instead of the date of application.
Information of pending cases/ monthly information of revolving fund should be sent to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund on email- cmrf.cmo@rajasthan.gov.in by 10th of every month.
Eligibility
Assistance is payable only on applying within a maximum period of 6 months from the date of accident.
In case of death of a seriously injured person in an accident while undergoing treatment, assistance is given on applying within a period of 6 months from the date of death instead of the date of application.
Information of pending cases/ monthly information of revolving fund should be sent to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund on email- cmrf.cmo@rajasthan.gov.in by 10th of every month.
Application Process
Offline
Visit the official website of the Rajasthan Government http://cmrelief.rajasthan.gov.in/
Look for the application form for the Kargil Package or contact the nearest Sainik Welfare and Resettlement Office for the application form.
Fill in the application form with all the required details, such as the name of the martyr or disabled soldier, the relationship with the soldier, bank account details, etc.
Attach all the necessary documents, such as the death or disability certificate of the soldier, identity proof, bank account details, etc.
Submit the application form along with the required documents to the nearest Sainik Welfare and Resettlement Office or online, if available.
The committee will review the application and process it accordingly.
If the application is approved, the financial assistance will be provided to the applicant as per the scheme's guidelines.
Documents Required
Application
Battle Casualty Report
Copy of the medical report of the injured (Mandatory).
Copy of post mortem report in case of death (Mandatory) or
In case of mutilation of the dead body, the satisfaction certificate of the investigating officer (mandatory).
Copy of FIR report (Mandatory).
Copy of Ration Card.
Copy of Aadhaar Card.
Copy of first page of bank account passbook / canceled check or photocopy
