Integrated Child Development Services Scheme
Nagaland
Integrated Child Development ServicesNagaland
Details
Detailed 
In Nagaland, the ICDS programme was launched in the year 1975 in the Jalukie block of Peren district with 50 Anganwadi centres. The programme has since grown and at present, there are 60 (sixty) ICDS projects in 11 (Eleven) districts of the State. Of this 2 (two) are Urban projects, one is rural project and the rest are Tribal projects. All the 6(six) services under ICDS such as Supplementary nutrition, Health check up, Non formal pre-school education, Immunization, Nutrition & Health education and Referral services are being provided through a Network of 3980 Anganwadi centres in the State.
Presently 60 (sixty) ICDS projects are operating in the state covering 3.45 Lakh beneficiaries under 3980 Anganwadi centres where all the 6 (six) services are provided to children in the age group of 0-6, pregnant women and lactating mothers.

Objectives
To improve the nutritional and health status of children in the age-group 0-6 years;
To lay the foundation for proper psychological, physical and social development of the child;
To reduce the incidence of mortality, morbidity, malnutrition and school dropout;
To achieve effective co-ordination of policy and implementation amongst the various departments to promote child development; and
To enhance the capability of the mother to look after the normal health and nutritional needs of the child through proper nutrition and health education.

Benefits
Benefits
The ICDS Scheme offers a package of six services, 
Supplementary nutrition.
Immunization.
Health check-up.
Referral services.
Pre-school non-formal education and
Nutrition & Health Education.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The children up to the age of 6 years.
Pregnant women.
Lactating mothers.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
Applicants need to visit the nearest Anganwadi centres to avail the benefits of the scheme. 
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Aadhaar Card
Passport Sized Photograph
Proof of Age / DOB
Proof of Address.
