Ministry Of Environment, Forest And Climate Change Internship Scheme
Ministry Of Environment,forests and climate change
EducationInternshipStudentTraining
Details
The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has an Internship Scheme for students. The Scheme seeks to engage students, with Graduation/Postgraduation Degrees, as well as Research Scholars, enrolled in recognized Universities / Institutions within India, or abroad, as “Interns”. These "Interns" shall be inducted all over the country in various Divisions/Units of the Ministry, ils Integrated Regional Offices, Autonomous, Organisations, Subordinate Offices, and ENVIS (Resource Partners & Hubs). These “Interns”, in turn, would be expected to supplement the process of analyzing within the Ministry and its other formations through the empirical collection and collation of in-house and other information. For the "Interns" the exposure to the functioning of the Ministry and its other formations may be an add-on in furthering their future interests.

 Purpose
To allow short-term exposure to "selected candidates" with different Divisions/Units of the Ministry and its other formations as interns. A list of domains/areas for which the Internship is available at Annexure-I.

Objectives
To allow young academic talent to be associated with the Ministry's work for mutual benefit.
The "Interns" shall have an opportunity to know about the Government functioning and Regulatory and Development Policy issues and contribute to its amendment, if required, by generating inputs such as empirical analysis, briefing reports, policy papers; etc.
A candidate can apply for the Internship Scheme only once during the financial year.

Period
The period of the Internship shall not exceed 3 months.

Attendance
The attendance record and the details of work shall be maintained by the Heads of the Divisions/Units;

Training Schedule
The internship shall be conducted twice in a financial year.
Summer Internship
Winter Internship
The time schedule shall be made available on the website of this Ministry from time to time.

Benefits
Stipend
The quantum of stipend to be paid to the Interns shall be ₹ 10,000/- per month. 

NOTE 1: No stipend shall be paid if the student leaves the internship before the completion of one month. 
NOTE 2: The amount of the stipend shall be paid proportionately depending upon the period of internship for the subsequent period of internship. 
NOTE 3: Absence of the Interns from attending the assigned task in the Ministry for more than 3 days in a month shall cause a deduction of stipend amount equivalent to the number of days in excess of 3 days.

Experience Certificate
A Certificate regarding the successful completion of the Internship shall be issued by the Divisional Head of the concerned Division in the format as available in ‘Annexure-Il".
NOTE 1: The Interns not completing the requisite period will not be issued any Certificate.

Logistics & Support
The Interns will be required to have their own laptops: Ministry & its other formations will provide them with working space, Internet facility and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned Head of the Division.

Seminars/Presentations
Seminars/Presentations can be conducted by the concerned Heads of particular Divisions/Units for their interns.

NOTE 1: Students/Trainees have to be made their own arrangements for boarding/lodging, transportation and stationery, etc.
Eligibility
The applicant should be pursuing Graduation or Post Graduation or Research Work from any Recognized University/Institute within India or Abroad.

Reservation / Preference / Priority
Students who are pursuing MSc. Or PGDM from IIFM will be given preference.

NOTE: Depending upon the number of applications received against a particular domain/area, Ministry reserves the right to fix the eligibility criteria, limit the number of applicants to be called for a particular period and decide about the mode of screening thereof.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Interested applicants should visit http://164.100.160.232/internship and click “Apply Online”.
Step 2: You will be taken to the Online Application Form. In the form, fill in the following mandatory fields: Name of the Applicant; Date of Birth; Address for Communication; E-mail ID; Mobile No; Area of Interest; Educational Qualification; Studying at Present (Details); Whether Presently Employed; Experience; Extracurricular Activities; Any other relevant information.
Step 3: Upload the photograph and the required documents (self-attest, if required) in the prescribed file type and filesize.
Step 4: Click “Submit”.

Selection Process
Step 1:All the applications received online will be forwarded to the concerned Heads of Verticals/ Units/Divisions in the Ministry and its other formations for further scrutiny and selection.
Step 2:The Divisional Head will formulate an Internal Scrutiny Committee with the composition of other relevant subject experts in the Unit and any other officers.
Step 3: Thereafter, in consultation with the Internal Scrutiny Committee so constituted within his/her purview will select the Interns on a merit basis.
Step 4: After the selection of the candidates, the concerned Division will send the name of the selected candidate to the Administration through the portal itself. The list of the selected candidates will be displayed on the website of the Ministry.
Documents Required
Passport size photograph with Signature (in JPG format; maximum 1MB size)
Mark Sheet / Degree of Graduation / Post Graduation
A Letter from the Supervisor / Head of the Department / Principal indicating their Status in the Institution
No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Institution (in PDF format; maximum 5MB size)
