40% Subsidy On Hank Yarn, Dyes & Chemicals Scheme
Andhra Pradesh
HandloomSubsidyWeaver
Details
The "40% subsidy on Hank Yarn, Dyes & Chemicals Scheme" is a Subsidy Scheme by the Department of Handlooms & Textiles, Government of Andhra Pradesh. The entire assistance under the scheme will be in the form of Grant from the State Government. The scheme is operative from 29th April 2011. The subsidy will be available only on purchases / procurements from NHDC & APCO. The amount sanctioned will be credited directly to the members bank account of the concerned primary weavers cooperative societies.

Benefits
40% subsidy on the purchases / procurements of Hank Yarn, Dyes & Chemicals from NHDC & APCO.
The 75% amount will be credited directly to the members bank account of the concerned primary weavers cooperative societies as production bonus basing on the wages earned by them.
The remaining 25% amount may be utilized by the societies for giving rebate on sales or any other production related purpose.
Eligibility
The subsidy will be available only on purchase / procurement of yarn from NHDC, Yarn Deports sanctioned by NHDC and APCO for self-consumption of Handloom Weaver Cooperative Societies for providing work to weaver members.
The subsidy will be allowed only on the Hank yarn purchased from the APCO & NHDC and its depots and utilized for the production on Societies, account during the quarter.
The claims for subsidy shall be submitted by the Weavers Cooperative Societies in the prescribed proforma on quarterly basis during the financial year with in 15 days from the end of the respective quarter.
The claims for subsidy in complete shape should reach Head Office with in 30 days from the end of the Quarter.


NOTE 1: The Weavers Coop Societies shall NOT claim any subsidy on the Yarn, Dyes and Chemicals purchased from private yarn dealers, Mills etc.
NOTE 2: The Weavers Coop. Societies should NOT claim any subsidy on Yarn, Dyes & Chemicals even if purchased from APCO or NHDC, but not utilized for production of cloth by way of issue of yarn and sold to non-members. 
Application Process
Offline
Application:
Step 1: The claims for subsidy shall be submitted by the Weavers Cooperative Societies to the Assistant Director (H&T) in the prescribed proforma on quarterly basis during the financial year within 15 days from the end of the respective quarter.
Step 2: The AD(H&T) after scrutiny shall recommend the claims with in next 15 days.
Step 3: All claims in complete shape should reach Head Office with in 30 days from the end of the Quarter.

NOTE: Appropriate cut will be imposed on bleated claims.

Disbursal of the Subsidy:
The amount sanctioned as 40% Yarn subsidy, 75% amount will be credited directly to the members bank account of the concerned primary Weavers Cooperative Societies as production bonus basing on the wages earned by them.
The societies may utilize the remaining 25% amount for giving rebate on sales or any other production related purpose with effect from 1st Dec 2016.
Documents Required
Certification that subsidy has been claimed only on the Hank Yarn and Dyes & Chemicals supplied to the members and utilized for production on Societies account from out of the Yarn and Dyes & Chemicals purchased from the NHDC and APCO.
Photocopies of invoices/receipts of hank yarn and Dyes & Chemicals purchased/procured from NHDC, its depots and APCO.
The abstract duly attested by the concerned Assistant Director (H&T).
Registers, Stock Register, Cash Book and other relevant records as required by the Assistant Director (H&T).
