Scheme For Award Of Stipend To The Schedule Tribe Students Of Arunachal Pradesh
Arunachal Pradesh
Arunachal PradeshDBT SchemeDirect Benefit TransferScholarship For ST
Details
The objective of Arunachal Pradesh State Stipend Scheme 2012 is to provide financial assistance to Scheduled Tribe students of Arunachal Pradesh so as to enable them to pursue various courses of Higher studies approved by the Government of Arunachal Pradesh. 

Below are the conditions for ﻿Award of Stipend:

1. The grant or continuance of stipend is subject to the satisfactory progress and good conduct of the student for the particular course for which he has applied for stipend. If it is reported by the Head of the Institution or local Administration that a stipend holder, by reason of his/her own act of default has failed to make satisfactory progress or has been found guilty of misconduct such as resorting to or participating in strike or political activities irregularity in attendance etc, the stipend shall be discontinued. 
2. The Government reserves the right to either cancel the stipend or stop or with-hold further payment to any student for such period as it may deem fit.
3. The stipend will not be admissible for the period when the institution is closed for vacation.
4. Stipend will be payable from the date of admission for a particular course provided. But if the student takes admission after 20th day of a month, the stipend shall be admissible from the next month onward.
5. The conditions for the award of stipend may be changed at any time at the discretion of the State Government without assigning any reasons whatsoever.
6. A stipend holder under this scheme will not avail stipend/scholarship from any other source. If any other stipend/scholarship is awarded to a student, he/she can opt for either of the two, which ever is beneficial to him/her and should surrender the other. 7. The stipend is not tenable for subsidiary/additional course such as L.L.B. with M.A. etc. The student who undergoes of two courses is given stipend for one course only.

Benefits
Below are the benefits of the scheme:

Students will be able to get a stipend rate on a monthly basis based on the course they are pursuing.
Lakhs of students will be able to pursue their dreams after getting enrolled under the Arunachal Pradesh State Stipend Scheme. 
The stipend will be given to the students who are pursuing higher/ technical or professional courses. 
Book grants will be provided to the student yearly. 
A stipend amount will be provided to the students for the duration of 11 months.
There are around 24 kinds of courses for which the government will provide a stipend rate to the students undertaking those courses.
The mode of DBT will be used for transferring the amount of the stipend on the monthly basis. 
There will be a promotion of the adoption of higher studies among ST students.
Eligibility
Below are the conditions of eligibility:

1) The stipend will be admissible to students who belong to Scheduled Tribes of the State as notified by the Central/State Government and are permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2) Scheduled Tribe students who are in full-time employment are not eligible for award of stipend.
3) A student who fails in a class for a particular course of study/stream and gets re-admitted in the same level of study for a different course/stream shall not be eligible for the award of stipend for that class.
4) A Girl student who fails in a class may be allowed one time stipend for same class in the next year with specific recommendation from the Head of Institution.
5) Students against whom disciplinary action is taken shall not be eligible for stipend.
6) Students whose attendance is below 75% in any month (unless for certified reasons of health or bereavement). shall not be eligible for award of stipend. 
7) Students who pursue their studies through correspondence course or distance education mode shall not be eligible for stipend.
8) Students pursuing their studies in institutions not recognized by the State or Central Regulators like UGC, AICTE, MCI, DCI, BCI, CCH. etc., shall not be eligible for award of stipend.
Application Process
Offline
1. Application for award of stipend should be submitted in the prescribed form within the date notified by the State Government. 
2. All applications must accompany by one attested copy of the following:
    a. Attested copy of Arunachal Pradesh Scheduled Tribe Certificate
    b. Attested copy of Mark sheet of last examination passed.
3. Application complete in all respect shall be submitted through the Head of the Institution to the concern sanctioning authority.
4. Incomplete applications or application received after the prescribed date will summarily be rejected.
Documents Required
Aadhar card of the student is mandatory
PAN Card
Income certificate
Educational Certificate
Caste Certificate in case the student belongs to the ST communities
Residence certificate issued by the competent authority
Proof of bank account details
