Asangathit Karmakar Samachar-Patr Hawker Cycle Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentFree CycleVehicle
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Asangathit Karmakar Samachar-Patr Hawker Cycle Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 10 September 2010. Under this scheme, One cycle will be provided free of cost to each unorganized  beneficiary. The main objective of the scheme to empower the unorganized Samaachaar-Patr Hokar worker through provide them free cycle. 

Benefits
A free of cost cycle will be provided. 
Eligibility
This scheme is for unorganized newspaper delivery workers (hawker) registered in any district of the state.
Newspaper delivery workers (hawker) are not eligible for this scheme if they receive benefits from a parallel scheme.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent residence certificate.
Bank account details.
Registration card.
