Financial Assistance To Disabled For Self Employment
Maharashtra
BusinessEntrepreneurshipFinancial AssistancePersons With DisabilitySocial Welfare
Details
The "Financial Assistance to Disabled for Self Employment" is a scheme by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. The objective of this scheme is to facilitate the self-employment of unemployed disabled persons. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to persons with disabilities for self-employment, small-scale business, and agro-based project. Only citizens who are permanent residents of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply for this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of up to ₹1,50,000/- is provided. 80% loan amount is provided by the Nationalized Bank.
20% subsidy of up to ₹30,000/- is provided by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (Visually Handicapped, Low Vision, Hearing Impaired, Orthopedically Handicapped, etc).
The percentage of the disability should be 40% or above.
The applicant should be in the 18 to 50 years age group.
The annual income of the applicant should be less than ₹1,00,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Commissioner, District Social Welfare Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate, Marksheet of Class 10th/12th, etc).
2-Passport Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State of Maharashtra.
Disability Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
