YSR Vahana Mitra
Andhra Pradesh
DriverFinancial AsisstanceSocial WelfareTransport
Details
Launched on 1st June 2021, "YSR Vahana Mitra" is a Social Welfare Scheme by the Transport, Roads, and Buildings Department. In this scheme, the government provides financial assistance of ₹ 10,000/- per annum to Self-owned Auto/Taxi Drivers for expenditure towards insurance, fitness certificate, repairs, and other requirements. The applicant shall "own" and "drive" an Auto rickshaw / Taxi / Maxi Cab. The applicant shall possess a valid driving license to drive an Auto rickshaw / Light Motor Vehicle.  The objective of the scheme is to increase income and reduce the expenses of taxi repair by providing financial assistance to financially weak taxi drivers.

Benefits
In this scheme, the government provides financial assistance of ₹ 10,000/- per annum to Self-owned Auto/Taxi Drivers for expenditure towards insurance, fitness certificate, repairs, and other requirements.
The payment will be made to the bank account of the beneficiary, through either Bank Transfer or Aadhar Enabled Payment System (AePS).
Eligibility
1. The applicant shall "own" and "drive" an Auto rickshaw / Taxi / Maxi Cab.
2. The scheme is applicable to the owners of passenger Auto rickshaws / Taxi / Maxi cabs. 
3. One Family is eligible to get benefits for one vehicle (auto or Taxi or Maxi cab) only. Family is defined as Husband, Wife, and minor children.
4. The vehicle shall be in the possession of the owner.
5. The bank account shall be in the name of the owner of the vehicle. The bank account of the beneficiary can be in any one of the scheduled commercial banks.
6. The applicant should not be a beneficiary under any GoAP scheme for the occupational groups.
7. The applicant/family members shall not be Government employees/pensioners. However, the families of sanitary workers are exempted.
8. The applicant/family members should not be income tax payees.
9. The monthly electricity consumption of the family dwelling unit (owned/rented) should be less than 300 units (calculated on the average of 6 months preceding the date of application)
10. The applicant shall not possess land exceeding 3 acres wet/ 10 acres 11. dry/ 10 acres wet & dry land.
12. In the Municipal areas, the applicant's family should not possess the property of more than 1000 sq. feet of residential/commercial built-up area.
13. The beneficiary should not be a GSTN holder.

NOTE 1: The ownership and license of different persons in the same white ration card are allowed. However, only one person is eligible for financial assistance in a family consisting of a husband, wife, and minor children on the same white ration card.
NOTE 2: If the beneficiary is Father/Mother/Daughter/brother and the driving license is in the name of the major son, the Father/Mother/Daughter/brother who is the registered owner of the vehicle is eligible to get the benefit, though both names are noted in different white ration cards.
NOTE 3: The beneficiaries who have driving licenses issued by other states shall apply for a change of address in the concerned RTO Office, concerned based on their place of residence which will be done expeditiously.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: On Citizen Schemes Portal landing page, the citizen can log in using the Aadhaar-tagged mobile OTP Authentication. In the “Citizen Scheme Application” page, citizens can select “YSR Vahana Mitra” from the schemes dropdown and click on “Submit”. 

Step 2: Applications submitted are forwarded to Welfare and Education Assistant (WEA) /Ward Welfare and Development Secretary (WWDS). 

Step 3: The Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS conducts the field verification for each application, takes eKYC, makes a relevant recommendation, and forwards it to Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) / Municipal Commissioner (MC). 

Step 4: The MPDOs/MCs review the application, conduct field verification, and make the relevant recommendation. 

Step 5: Based on recommendations made by the MPDO/MCs and the applicants’ eligibility as mentioned in the Scheme Eligibility Calculator, the Social Audit lists namely the Provisional eligible list and Reverification list (with reasons for ineligibility) are published in all secretariats. 

Step 6: The citizens in the Reverification list can raise a grievance if they think that the reason mentioned for ineligibility is incorrect. 

Step 7: The final list of Eligible and Ineligible Beneficiaries is published in all secretariats. 

Step 8: The citizens mentioned in the Final Ineligible list can raise a grievance in Citizen Schemes Portal if he/she thinks that the reason for rejection is incorrect. 

Step 9: The scheme benefit is disbursed to all eligible beneficiaries through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). The acknowledgment of receipt of the payment by the beneficiary is done by the Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS using eKYC (Biometric Authentication).

Step 10: The beneficiaries can track the status of their payment on the Citizen Schemes Portal landing page by clicking on “Track Application Status”.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number of Self.
Aadhaar Number of Family Members: (Spouse & Minor Children Only)
A Valid Driving License to Drive an Auto Rickshaw / Light Motor Vehicle.
BPL/white ration Card / Annapurna Card / Antyodaya Card.
The vehicle (Auto Rickshaw / Taxi / Maxi Cab) shall be covered with valid records like a Registration Certificate and tax in the case of LT Cabs.
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account (Account Number, Bank Name, Branch Name, and IFSC Code)
Vehicle's Photo Along With the Beneficiary.
Proof of Address / Residential Certificate
Documents Relating to the Beneficiary's Ownership of the Vehicle and Certification That He is the Owner Cum Driver of the Vehicle.
Caste Certificate (issued by competent Authority in case of SC/ST/BC/Minority communities)
Documents relating to the other prescribed eligibility conditions relating to Income, the Extent of Land Holding/ Residential Property, Electricity Consumption, Possession of a Four-wheeler, Income Tax Payment, etc.

NOTE: The WEA/WDS shall validate the electricity usage data displayed in the system with the concerned beneficiary.
