Chief Minister’s Shasakt Kisan Yojana
Arunachal Pradesh
FarmerFinancial AssistanceHorticultureRubberSelf-employmentTea
Details
To increase production and productivity and also to maintain a marketable surplus of major fruit crops in the State as well as to double farmer’s income, the government has adopted region-wise feasible and need-based Horticulture activities in the various districts of Arunachal Pradesh under budget announcement during the financial year 2019-20, targeted up to 2021-22.
Objective:
      The main aim of the government scheme is to uplift the status of women, marginal and small farmers of the state for self-employment generation & commercialization of horticulture activities to double their income as per immediate felt needs of the farmers, according to thrust areas enumerated district-wise on suitable crops grown in the specific areas.
Important Features:
• Inputs are provided to farmers for tea, rubber, and double cropping, per hectare
• Crops under double cropping are selected based on soil testing

Benefits
1. Under this scheme, cash assistance will be provided by the State Government for tea and rubber plantation:
    • ₹1.00 lakh per hectare for tea plantation
    • ₹80,000 per hectare for rubber plantation
2. Provision of seedlings and planting material
3. Provision of Fencing Material – Barbed wire, nails, GI angle post, etc.
4. Tools and implement for tea, rubber, and double cropping farming like Khurpi, spade, dao, and sprayer machine.
5. Cultivation assistance for land development – manure and fertilizer, plant protection chemicals.
Eligibility
1. The applicant/farmer should be a permanent resident of Arunachal Pradesh.
2. The applicant should be a progressive farmer of any area/field.
3. All categories of farmers are eligible to apply under the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant may contact Deputy Commissioner (DADS)/District Agriculture Officer/ Nearest Agriculture Development Officer/ Agriculture field assistant.
Step 02: Applications in the prescribed format are received from various circles through ADAs/ADOs.
Step 03: The applicant must ensure that the filled information should be correct before submitting the application form to the concerned department.
Step 04: The final selection of beneficiaries is done through the selection Committee under the Chairmanship of the District Collector (DC).
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter ID card, etc.
Copy of the Arunachal Pradesh Schedule Tribe (APST) Certificate (If applicable)
LPC/Land Allotment Documents/ Land Documents duly certified by GB/HGB/PRI and countersigned by the Local District Administration
Three copies of recent passport-sized photograph
Sketch map of the proposed land for Tea/Rubber dully certified by GB/HGB/PRI and countersigned by the Local District Administration
