Interest Subsidy on Loans for Agriculture and Allied Activities
Goa
AgricultureAnimal HusbandryFisheriesLoanSubsidy
Details
“Interest Subsidy on Loans for Agriculture and Allied Activities” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, the bonafide agriculturist, individuals of the animal husbandry sector/ fisheries sector from Goa are provided a loan of upto ₹ 5,00,000 for the purpose of Agriculture and Allied Activities. The applications are accepted only in offline mode. 

Benefits
Loan of upto ₹ 5,00,000.
Interest Subsidy on Short-Term Loans: 4% to farmers who promptly repay their loans.
Interest Subsidy on Long-Term Loans: Equal to the difference between a 4% interest rate and the normal rate charged by eligible Banks, in line with their policies. The subsidy is subject to a maximum limit of 8%.
Eligibility
For Inland Fisheries
The applicant should own or lease any of the fisheries-related activities, such as pond, tank, open water bodies, raceway, hatchery, rearing unit, possess the necessary license for fish farming and fishing-related activities, and any other state-specific fisheries and allied activities.
The applicant may include fishers, fish farmers (individual & groups/partners/share/croppers/tenants/farmers), self-help groups, joint liability groups, and women groups.
For Marine Fisheries
The applicant should own or lease a registered fishing vessel/boat, possess the necessary fishing license/permission for fishing in estuaries and sea, engage in fish farming/mariculture activities in estuaries and open sea, and participate in any other state-specific fisheries and allied activities.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the prescribed format of the application form from the department.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Quotation Bill
Aadhaar Card of Applicant
Vessel Registration Certificate
Fishing & Net Licence Receipts
Letter From Bank to Avail Loan
Copy of Permission Letter Issued by Directorate of Fisheries to Construct Canoe/trawler/purseiner/purchase of New Net
Copy of Certificate Issued by Coastal Aquaculture Authority for Construction/renovation of Prawn Farming
Inspection Report From Fisheries Officer
Mandate Form
