Pathani Samanta Mathematics Talent (Class - 11 To 12)
Odisha
Direct Benefit TransferFinancial AssistanceMathematicsScholarshipStudents
Details
The Government of Odisha in School & Mass Education Department is awarding the “Pathani Samanta Mathematics Talent Scholarship (PSMTS)” out of the State budget to provide financial assistance to the meritorious Higher Secondary School Students of Odisha having proficiency in Mathematics studying in Odia medium Government/Aided/Recognized Institutions.
         The scholarship is awarded to students pursuing their studies in Class XI and XII in Higher Secondary Schools affiliated with the Council of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha. Under this scheme, the top 1000 students fulfilling the eligibility criteria will receive ₹ 5,000 per month for 10 months in a year.
Merit Criteria for Selection:
The following factors will be taken into consideration:
1. Fulfilment of eligibility conditions as per the modalities.
2. Online authentication/invalidation of student records by the Principal/Head of concerned Higher Secondary Schools/Institutions.
3. Final Merit/Selection list of 1000 students will be drawn in terms of aggregate marks plus the marks secured in Mathematics in HSC Exam provided by BSE (O).
4. In case of a tie, the candidate's position shall be determined by the mark secured in S.C.P.
Procedure for Disbursement:
The scholarship would be sanctioned subject to fulfillment of the prescribed eligibility criteria by the students and validation/authentication by the Principals of the concerned Higher Secondary Schools/ Institutions in online mode only. The scholarship will be paid to the selected students by the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education through DM- (Direct Benefit Transfer) mode only and will be transferred to the Bank account of the beneficiaries.
Duration of Scholarship and its Renewal:
A student eligible for the scholarship will be paid for 10 months a year. Scholarship awarded to any student under the “Pathani Samanta Mathematics Talent Scholarship” is renewable if the awardee qualifies for promotion to a higher class (Class XII), which will be authenticated online by the concerned Higher Secondary School/Institution.
          For scholarship renewal, the names of selected students in the previous selection year will be listed in the Principal's login ID. Only students continuing in the concerned academic year have to be authenticated online by the Principal. If any student is found to have dropped out/not been promoted, then the Higher Secondary School shall not validate their record.

Benefits
The students of Class XI and XII fulfilling the eligibility criteria will receive ₹ 5,000 per month for 10 months in a year.
A student may enjoy more than one scholarship at a time including PSMTS.
Eligibility
The student pursuing his/her studies in Class XI and XII in Higher Secondary Schools affiliated to Council of Higher Secondary Education, Odisha.
The students have proficiency in Mathematics.
The candidate must belong to the General, SC, ST, OBC/SEBC & EBC categories.
The scheme is applicable to students reading in Odia Medium Higher Secondary Schools affiliated to CHSE(O).
There shall be no income criteria for the award of this scholarship.
Application Process
Online
To apply for the scholarship, eligible students need to follow the below-given steps:
Step 01: Click the Registration link at the portal, only eligible students (Top-2064 HSC passed-out students) can apply for the scholarship. https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/website/student-registration
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar number and proceed further.
Step 03: Check your registered mobile or email to get the user ID and password.
Step 04: Click the login link at the portal and enter the User ID and password to apply for the scholarship.
Step 05: Provide all necessary details like personal, academic, eligibility, and bank information.
Step 06: Click on the "Save as draft" button to draft the information or click on the 'Next' button to save and proceed with the scholarship form.
Step 07: The preview of the completed form will appear on the page. Download the forms and take its print out.
Step 08: Concerned students are advised to keep the applicant copy for their future reference.
Post-Application Processes:
Step 01: Validation of online application by Principal/ Head of Institution.
Step 02: After receipt of the verified/validated applications, the Director, of Higher Secondary Education (O) shall award the scholarship to the top 1000 students.
Step 03: The scholarship will be disbursed to the selected candidate's account through electronic transfer of funds (DBT). The Awardees need to open a joint Bank Account in the name of the student and one of her/his parents.
Step 04: The Scholarship will be not renewed if the student discontinued/ fails to qualify for promotion to the next higher class (Class XII).
Step 05: Application which is not validated /authenticated by the institute will be treated as ‘Invalid’.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of the student concerned
Copy of passbook of Bank account with account number and IFSC code of the bank branch
Passport-size Photograph of student
College ID card of the Student, while in the absence of the same, the student may provide Admission receipt/Library Card/Letter of undertaking from concerned school/college authority (Anyone).
Mark sheets & certificate of last qualifying examination i.e. HSC from an institution recognized by BSE Odisha.
Note 01: Proof of possession of an Aadhaar or undergoing Aadhaar authentication is required for applying Scholarship Scheme. Any student not yet enrolled for Aadhaar shall have to apply for Aadhaar enrolment by visiting any Aadhaar enrolment center to get enrolled for Aadhaar.
Note 02: Any student not assigned with Aadhaar shall produce the following documents, namely:-
a) If he has enrolled, his Aadhaar Enrolment ID slip, or copy of his request made for Aadhaar enrolment.
b) (i) The Voter Identity Card issued by the Election Commission of India or (ii) Ration Card; or (iii) the Driving Licence issued by Licensing authority under the Motor Vehicles Act 1988; or (iv) the Certificate of Identity having a photo of such member issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on official letterhead; or (v) PAN Card; or (vi) any other document specified by the competent authority.
Note 03: In case of not having an Aadhaar No., please contact through Principal concerned within the given dateline for login details.
Note 04: The students must have an active and valid joint Bank account in any nationalized bank which has an Electronic Clearing System (ECS)/ Core Banking facility to facilitate the transfer of scholarship amount directly to their account.
Note 05: The Bank Account must be in the name of the applicant and one of his/her parents, Students must enter their Bank/Branch name, Savings Bank Account number, IFSC code very carefully to ensure a smooth transfer of the scholarship amount.
