Aamar Dukan On Wheels
Assam
Aamar DukanBusinessStartupWheels
Details
Details
The Government proposes to introduce a new module of “Aamar Dukan” namely “AAMAR DUKAN ON WHEELS” in the same line as the existing ‘Aamar Dukan’. Under the new module, 22 Non-PDS items (which may increase to 36) will be delivered to the doorstep of the consumer at below MRP with a minimum profit margin. Eco-friendly E-rickshaws will be used as the transportation mode under the Scheme. Through this scheme, Government plans to promote cashless transactions as the E-Rickshaws will have a GPS-enabled smart phone, and Bluetooth billing printer which will be connected to the smart phone.
Objective
The basic objective of the Scheme Aamar Dukan on Wheels is to control the price of essential commodities by avoiding the middleman. Through this scheme, the consumers will get their daily requirements of essential commodities at their doorstep at a reasonable price and shall also contribute to the removal of the unemployment problem. 

Benefits
Benefits
The beneficiary will keep the commodities allotted by the Department in case of AAMAR DUKAN on wheels in addition to other commodities.
The selected beneficiaries of AAMAR DUKAN on wheels is allowed to take a profit margin of Rs. 2.00 to Rs. 3.00 per Kg./Per litre from consumers.
The selected beneficiaries must abide by the direction of the Director, FCS&CA, Deputy Commissioners/Sub-Divisional Officers/Principal Secretaries of all Autonomous Councils. Any lapse on their part will be viewed seriously and legal action may be initiated also they will have to return the financial aid in addition to interest to the authority.
The beneficiary should operate his shop as per the schedule specified by the authority. Any lapses in this regard will amount to the cancellation of his licence.
The area of operation will be specified by the local authority for each beneficiary.
The AAMAR DUKAN holders on wheels must display the displaying board of prices while distributing commodities.
The AAMAR DUKAN holders on wheels will lift commodities from the selected wholesalers/stockists as per the direction of the respective Deputy Commissioners/Sub-Divisional Officers/Principal Secretaries of all Autonomous Councils.
The beneficiary should operate his shop as per the schedule specified by the authority. Any lapses in this regard will amount to the cancellation of his licence.
The AAMAR DUKAN on wheels should maintain the stock book and distribution register for inspecting authority.
Eligibility
Eligibility
The applicant should be educated unemployed youth.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Assam.
He should attain the age of 18 years and above.
His name should be registered in the Employment Exchange.
The minimum educational qualification will be HSLC or equivalent.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
Deputy Commissioners/Sub-Divisional Officers/Principal Secretaries of all Autonomous Councils will invite applications and selection will be made on merit which includes
Educational Qualification.
Past experience if any, and
Financial condition
Documents Required
List of the required document 
Age proof.
Address proof.
Personal Identification: Aadhaar Card, Voter ID & Driving License. 
Educational Qualification.
Experience certificate, if any.
Photographs.
