Sikkim Grant Of Award To Transgender
Sikkim
Below Poverty LineDirect Benefit TransferFinancial AssistanceFree EducationTransgender
Details
The scheme “Sikkim Grant of Award To Transgender (SGATT)” was launched in 2013 by the Department of Women & Child Welfare, Govt. of Sikkim. Under this scheme, the state government provides financial assistance to transgender belonging to a household of the Below Poverty Line category. The scheme helps the transgender who has no regular source of income, no financial support from family members, and is non-recipient of any other pension from the State Government/Central Government or any other sources.

Benefits
A monthly amount of ₹ 12000/- to the transgender of the age group of 0-6 years.
100% free education up to graduation level.
A monthly amount of ₹ 500/- is to be given, if remained unemployed after possessing the required educational or technical qualification.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Sikkim.
The applicant should be transgender.
The applicant should be from Below Poverty Line (BPL) family.
The applicant should not be a recipient of salary/pension/family pension from the Central Government / other State Governments.
The applicant should have opened the Bank Account under “Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana”.

Note 01: The payment of a grant to the transgender shall cease from the date of the death of the beneficiary. The amount due up to the corresponding month of death shall be paid to the immediate members of the beneficiary and the passbook shall be surrendered to the Department.

Note 02: In case of permanent migration of the beneficiary outside Sikkim, the payment of the grant shall cease to be made from the date of her/his migration. In such event, the family/ Panchayat of the beneficiary shall surrender the passbook to the Department.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 01: The applicant has to approach their concerned Gram Panchayat /Municipality / Municipal Corporation office. Consult with the designated authority about the applying procedure and the local department office for this scheme. Collect the application form.

Step 02: Fill in all the mandatory fields of the application form and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents and submit it to the designated receiving authority.

Post-Application Processes:

Step 01: On receipt of an application in the prescribed Form, the same shall be scrutinized by the Selection Committee. Thereafter, the approval shall be accorded by the Secretary.

Step 02: A copy of the order for the payment shall be endorsed to the District Collectors, Sub-Divisional Magistrates, Revenue Officers, and Panchayat where the applicant actually resides.

Step 03: The payment of the grant shall be disbursed to the office of the Block Development Officers or through Direct Benefit Transfer as the case may be.
Documents Required
Recent passport size photographs – 3 Number
Attested photocopy of Sikkim Subject Certificate / Certificate of Identification as the case may be i.e. Income certificate, Caste certificate.
Attested photocopy of Below Poverty Line Certificate.
Birth Certificate or Electoral photo Identity Card or any other valid document having recorded the date as proof of age.
Attested copy of Aadhar Card.
Attested photocopy of the first page of the Bank/Post Office Passbook along with the photocopy of latest updated account.
Medical Certificate certified by the HoD/Medicine, Gynecology, Pediatrics and Surgery of STNM Hospital or District Hospital.
