Fee Reimbursement Scheme
Uttar Pradesh
Financial AssistanceHigher EducationStudent Welfare
Details
Education is top-seeded to uplift the backward classes, Because of the lack of education, a social category remains backward. In spite of the long duration passed since the independence of the country, no expected improvement seen in the educational status of Other Backward Classes. Many efforts have been made to improve the educational status.  
At present, the Fee Reimbursement scheme is being operated in online mode by the Department of Backward Classes Welfare with the objective of developing backward classes and uplifting their educational status.  Under this scheme, students of Other Backward Classes studying in all government schools, and aided and recognized educational institutes are being provided with a scholarship each year.  Department of Backward Classes Welfare is continuously working to uplift the educational status of backward classes.

Benefits
Course group-wise maximum amount payable for fee reimbursement
In Group -1, the maximum payable annual fee reimbursement is Rs. 50,000/- under the following course :
Degree and Master Degree Courses, M. Fil.-Ph.D., Courses of all medical therapies, Technology, Engineering, Planning, Architecture, Design, Fashion Technology, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Allied Sciences, Business Finance, Management Administration, Computer Science etc, C.P.L. Courses, Post Graduate Diploma in Medical Management, C.A., I.C.W.A., C.S., I.C.F.A., LL.M., D. Lit, D.S.C. etc.
In Group -2, the Maximum payable annual fee reimbursement is Rs. 30,000/- under the following course :
Graduate/Post Graduate level Degree Diploma, certificate courses like Pharmacy, Nursing, LL.B., B.F.S., Para-Medical like rehabilitation, Diagnosis etc, Mass-Communication, Hotel Management, Interior Decoration, Nutrition and Dietetics, Commercial Art, Tourism Hospitality, Financial Services (e.g. Banking Insurance, Taxation etc.), in which minimum qualification is Intermediate or equivalent and postgraduate courses which are not included in Group-1 like M.A./M.Sc./M. Com./M. Ed./M. Pharma/B. Ed. Etc.  
In Group -3, the Maximum payable annual fee reimbursement is Rs. 20,000/- under the following course :
All graduate level courses which are not included in Group-I and II, like B.A., B. Sc. and B. Com./B.T.C etc. 
In Group -4, the Maximum payable annual fee reimbursement is Rs. 10,000/- under the following course :
All non-degree level courses, where-in the minimum entrance qualification, is High School, like I.T.I. and three year diploma courses (Polytechnic) etc. 
Eligibility
Native and under study in Uttar Pradesh.
The annual income of the parents/guardians of the student is up to Rs. 2 Lakh.
Students belonging to Other Backward Classes studying in all the government schools, aided and recognized educational institutes of the state, based on the Cut-Off merit of marks percentage of last year (up to the budget availability), are eligible. 
Application Process
Online
Visit the official website https://scholarship.up.gov.in
Click on the Option available in Student Section (by OBC students). 
Start the registration by providing the Aadhaar number. 
Then, fill out the application form.
Take the printout of the filled application form.
Deposit prints out along with all enclosures in the educational institute.
Documents Required
Aadhaar 
Caste Certificate. 
Previous course certificate 
Applicant photograph. 
Annual Income certificate.
