Financial Assistance To Self-Employment For Trained Disabled Persons
Maharashtra
EmploymentFinancial AssistancePersons With DisabilitySocial Welfare
Details
The "Financial Assistance to Self-Employment for Trained Disabled Persons" is a scheme by the Department of Social Justice & Special Assistance, Govt. of Maharashtra. The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to facilitate the purchase of equipment for those disabled persons who are completing vocational training from government institutions or recognize institution to start their own businesses. Only citizens who are permanent residents of the state of Maharashtra are eligible to apply for this scheme. This scheme is 100% funded by the Govt. of Maharashtra.

Benefits
A Financial Assistance of ₹1,000/- for the Purchase of Tool Kits/Equipment to Start Their Own Business.
Eligibility
The applicant should have completed their Vocational Training in a Government or Government Recognized Institution.
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Maharashtra State.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (Visually Handicapped, Low Vision, Hearing Impaired, Orthopedically Handicapped, etc).
The percentage of the disability should be 40% or above.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Assistant Commissioner, District Social Welfare Office.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.
Documents Required
A proposal along with the proposed project cost.
Proof reg. the completion of Vocational Training in a Government or Government Recognized Institution.
Aadhaar Card.
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate, Marksheet of Class 10th/12th, etc).
2-Passport Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State of Maharashtra.
Disability Certificate.
Details of the Bank Account (Bank Name, Branch Name, Address, IFSC, etc).
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
