Post-Matric Scholarship To VJNT Students - Maharashtra
Maharashtra
Post-MatricScholarshipStudentVimukta Jatis & Nomadic Tribes
Details
The Government of Maharashtra launched a scheme namely “Post-Matric Scholarship to VJNT students” vide G.R. No. EBC 1068/83567/57 dated 24.12.1970 in 1970. This scheme was started by the Government to encourage the student of the Vimukta Jatis & Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) to undergo Post-Matric higher education.
 Objective:
1. To encourage the VJNT students to undergo Post-Matric Courses.
2. Providing financial assistance for education.
3. Creating a passion for higher education.
4. Providing students the opportunity to go to the mainstream of education through education.
        Under this scheme, benefits of Tuition Fees, Exam Fees, and Maintenance Allowance are paid to only VJNT category students. All the eligible VJNT students are paid maintenance allowance from ₹ 90 to ₹ 190 per month for hostellers and ₹ 150 to ₹ 425 per month for day scholar students.

Benefits
All the Eligible students of VJNT are paid maintenance allowance as under:
If Applicant selects Course Group A - for hostlers ₹425/- p.m. & Day Scholars (Non-Hostlers) ₹190/- p.m. (Duration -Admission date to till exam completion date)
If Applicant selects Course Group B - for hostlers ₹290/- p.m. & Day Scholars (Non-Hostlers) ₹190/-p.m. (Duration - Admission date to exam completion date)
If Applicant selects Course Group C - for hostlers ₹290/- p.m. & Day Scholars (Non-Hostlers) ₹190/- p.m. (Duration - Admission date to till exam completion date)
If Applicant selects Course Group D - for hostlers ₹230/- p.m. & Day Scholars (Non-Hostlers) ₹120/- p.m. (Duration - Admission date to till exam completion date)
If Applicant selects Course Group E - for hostlers ₹150/- p.m. & Day Scholars (Non-Hostlers) ₹90/- p.m. (Duration - Admission date to till exam completion date)
Tuition Fees, Exam Fees, and Maintenance allowance are paid 100% to applicants who are studying in government /aided/non-aided institutions in professional courses and non-professional courses.
If the Applicant gets admission in a government hostel then he will be eligible for only 1/3rd amount of the hostler.
For B.Ed and D.Ed courses: 100 % benefit (Tuition Fees, Exam Fees, and Maintenance Allowance) is applicable for D.Ed, and B.Ed courses. For students studying in Aided, UnAided for D.Ed and B.Ed courses the Fee structure is applicable as per Government rates for the same course.
Note: If the applicant takes an admission on or before the 20th of any month should entitle date maintenance allowance will be issued for that current month. Otherwise, maintenance allowance will be entitled from next month.
Eligibility
The parent's/Guardian's annual income should be less than or equal to ₹1.50 Lac.
Applicants should belong to the VJNT category.
Applicants must be residents of Maharashtra.
Applicants must be pursuing the education course approved by the government from the class Post-Matric.
Maintenance allowance & exam fees are paid to the applicant if the applicant gets promoted to the next higher class.
If the applicant fails in a particular year then he will get the Tuition Fees, Exam Fees, and Maintenance allowance of that particular academic year but he/she will not get the benefit until he/she gets promoted to the next higher class.
Applicant should come through CAP round for only professional courses.
Only two children (i) any number of girl applicants allowed. ii) Boys applicant maximum 2 of the same parent) of the same parents will be eligible for the Scholarship.
75 % attendance is mandatory for the current year.
The applicant will be eligible for a scholarship if he/she changes the course Non – Professional to Professional but he will not be eligible if he/she changes the course from Professional to Non – Professional.
Scholarships/freeship will continue until the applicant completes one course. Ex. - 11th, 12th Arts - B.A., M.A., M.Phil., P.H.D. If, the applicant completed B.A and B.Ed. course and later after taking admission for M.A., for M.A. course he/she will not be allowed for scholarship/freeship. But after admission to M.B.A. after B.Ed, it can be eligible for scholarship/freeship as it is a professional postgraduate course.
Applicant studying in particular professional/Non-Professional course and availing benefits of scholarship/freeship for that academic course and if he/she wants to change his existing Professional / Non-Professional course in between academic years he/she will not be eligible for freeship/scholarship for further course.
Renewal Policy:
Applicants have to pass the previous year's examination.
In the case of VJNT, if the applicant fails for a year then the applicant is not paid any reimbursement for that particular year.
For Group A – If an applicant pursuing the Group-A course fails in the examination for the 1st time the award may be renewed. For second & sub sequent failure in any class, the Applicant shall bear his / her own expenses until he/she secures promotion to the next higher class.
For Group B,C,D,E - he/she has to secure promotion to a higher class (For second & subsequent failure in any class the applicant shall bear his / her own expenses until he/she secures promotion to the next higher class.)
If due to any medical condition or due to any unforeseeable event the Applicant cannot appear in the annual examination, the headmaster of the college can approve or certify that if the Applicant would have appeared in the annual examination, he would have been able to pass the examination. This will be only allowed if the head of the institution is satisfied by the submission of medical proof or any other required sufficient proof that the Applicant presents to the college.
Application Process
Online
Registration: Visit the official website to register yourself by clicking on “New Applicant registration” and fill in all the mandatory details (Applicant’s Name, Username, Password, Email, and Mobile Number): https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/RegistrationLogin/RegistrationLogin
Login: Now, you may login by filling login details: https://mahadbt.maharashtra.gov.in/Login/Login
Create profile: Create your profile by filling in all your updated personal details like address, qualifications, etc.
Apply Scheme: After filling in 100% of the profile information, you may apply for the eligible schemes.
Documents Required
Caste certificate - should be issued by a competent authority (Issued by Govt. of Maharashtra). This certificate considered as Proof of Resident.
Income certificate / Income Declaration - should be issued by competent authority
Caste Validity Certificate – (Mandatory for Professional Degree courses, Professional Post Graduate. For Non Professional courses caste validity is not mandatory)
HSC or SSC marks sheet or last examination marks sheet.
Gap certificate - Not mandatory but in case of gap it is mandatory.
If applicable father/Guardians death certificate.
Ration Card for identify number of children in family.
Leaving Certificate
Declaration certificate of parents/guardians about number of children beneficiaries.
