KULAVILAKKU
Puducherry
Financial AssistanceHospitalInfantPregnantWoman
Details
"KULAVILAKKU" is a scheme for pregnant women by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme aims to enhance the nutritional status of Pregnant Women. ₹500/- assistance is provided to eligible beneficiaries during their pregnancies. The scheme is a crucial step towards ensuring the well-being of both mother and child. The benefit will be provided for upto two pregnancies only.

Benefits
₹500/- financial assistance during pregnancy.
* The benefit will be provided for upto two pregnancies only.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Pondicherry by birth or by continuous residence of not less than 5 years.
The applicant should be a woman.
The applicant should be pregnant.
The applicant should have attained the age of 18 years.
The applicant should have crossed seven months of pregnancy.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹24,000/- per annum.
The benefit will be provided for upto two pregnancies only.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport-sized Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Declaration/Undertaking (if any).
Medical Certificate from a Competent Authority.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
