Kotwar Cycle Evam Torch Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentFinancial AssistanceVehicles
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Kotwar Cycle Evam Torch Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 10 September 2013. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing financial assistance of Cycle or Torch .

Benefits
1. Financial Assistance of ₹ 3,000/- per person for bicycle or the rate fixed by CSIDC for bicycle which will be lower 
2. Financial Assistance of ₹. 750/- per person for torch.
Eligibility
Applicant must be registered as an unorganized worker in any district of the state.
Applicant must be between the ages of 18 and 60.
Applicant should not have received a cycle or torch under the cycle assistance scheme implemented by the board or any other scheme implemented by other departments of the state government.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent residence certificate.
Bank account details.
Registration card.
