E-Medhabruti
Odisha
PostgraduateScholarshipUndergraduate
Details
The scheme "e-Medhabruti" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Higher Education Department, Government of Odisha. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance of up to ₹ 20,000 to meritorious students of Odisha whose parental income does not exceed ₹ 6,00,000. The number of scholarships that are awarded every year is 14,500. The scholarship is provided for the complete duration of the course. The student can apply for e-Medhabruti Scholarship only in the year of joining (i.e. 1st year of the course).

Benefits
Rate of Scholarship:

Category of Merit: U.G. Merit
No. of Scholarships: 6,000
Rate of Scholarship per Year (in ₹): 5,000/-
Amount of Scholarship to be paid at a time (in ₹): 15,000/-

Category of Merit: P.G. Merit
No. of Scholarships: 2,500
Rate of Scholarship per Year (in ₹): 10,000/-
Amount of Scholarship to be paid at a time (in ₹): 20,000/-

Category of Merit: Technical & Professional Merit
No. of Scholarships: 6,000
Rate of Scholarship per Year (in ₹): 10,000/-
Amount of Scholarship to be paid at a time (in ₹): As per the duration of the course.

Remarks: 
The number of scholarships under a particular category may be increased by the Govt. depending on the number of eligible students who applied and validated in other categories in an academic year.


Duration of the Scholarship:
A student will be eligible for the scholarship for the total duration of the course. A one-time scholarship for the entire duration of the course shall be disbursed in the first semester/year as detailed in the table. 
In case any student, after availing one-time scholarship under one course, joins another course i.e. students joining engineering, medical, and other professional courses during +3 and any other course having a higher scholarship amount, then the student will be entitled to the differential amount only. The differential amount will also be released in the first semester/year of the new course.

Mode of Disbursement:
The scholarship will be paid to the selected students by the Higher Education Department through DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) mode and will be transferred to the Bank account of the beneficiaries.

NOTE 1: The students must have an active and valid account in any scheduled bank which has an Electronic Clearing System (ECS)/ Core Banking facility to facilitate the transfer of scholarship amounts directly to their account.
NOTE 2: The bank account must be in the name of the applicant/student only. Students must enter their bank/Branch name, saving bank account number, and IFSC very carefully to ensure a smooth transfer of the scholarship amount. 
Eligibility
Courses Applicable:

U.G Merit: For pursuing +3 Degree Course (B.A./ B.Sc./B.Com.) and courses such as BBA/BCA/BJMC etc. having a duration of 3 years.
P.G.Merit: P.G. courses in Arts / Commerce / Science/ other Post Graduate courses that are of non-professional in nature and admission to such P.G. courses is a Degree in Arts / Science / Commerce. 
Technical & Professional Merit: Only Undergraduate Professional degree courses and integrated courses mentioned in the guidelines are eligible under this head. The list includes B.E./B.Tech/ MBBSI BDS/ BCA/ BHMS/ BAMS/ B.Pharm./ B.Sc. (Nursing)/ B.Sc. (Agriculture) etc. which are duly recognized by the respective Government Regulatory Bodies such as All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Medical Council of India (MCI), Dental Council of India (DCI), Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), Central Council of Homeopathy (CCH) /Indian Nursing Council (INC), University Grants Commission (UGC), etc. 

Eligibility Conditions:
1.  The student must be a permanent resident of Odisha State.
2.  The income of the parents of the student from all sources shall not exceed ₹ 6,00,000 per annum.
3.  The Student must have secured a minimum of 60% marks in the previous qualifying examination for different categories of merit as mentioned against each.
4.  Students can apply only in the year of joining (1st year of the course).

Eligibility based on Scholarship Type:
1.   Scholarship Type: U.G. Merit
Eligibility: Must have passed +2 of CHSE, Odisha / Class XII or equivalent exam with 60% or more marks from an institution recognized by CBSE/ICSE and pursuing regular Degree Course / +3 course in any of the recognized Colleges / Institutions / Universities.
2.   Scholarship Type: P.G. Merit
Eligibility: Must have passed +3 Degree or equivalent exam with 60% or more marks from a recognized Institute and pursuing a regular course in one of the disciplines (where scholarship is offered) in any of the recognized Colleges / Institutions / Universities.
3.   Scholarship Type: Technical & Professional Merit
Must have passed +2 of CHSE / CBSE / ICSE/ Equivalent exam or +3 Degree / equivalent 2/3 year course (only for MBAJMCNMFC/MSW) with 60% or more marks and pursuing regular Technical & Professional Courses in the Colleges / Institutions recognized by respective regulatory authorities.

Merit-Based District-Wise Selection:
1. Final Merit/Selection lists of the students will be drawn in terms of the aggregate percentage of marks obtained in the last qualifying examination from among the validated students in the respective category of merit, district-wise. The mode of selection for scholarship shall be made through descending order of merit till it reaches the eligible quota of scholarship.
2. In case of a tie-in percentage of marks under a particular type of scholarship and some are to be left out due to exceeding the maximum quota of scholarship, then the parental income ceiling will be considered i.e. the student with a lower parental income ceiling will get preference.
3. The CBSE / ICSE grading system in the form of CGPA i.e. Grade points shall be converted to the percentage by multiplying with the 9.5 formula Percentage (%) = CGPA x 9.5.
Application Process
Online
Registration:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/
Step 2: Click on "Registration".
Step 3: Read the Instructions/Declaration carefully. 
Step 4: Select the Checkbox and Click "I Agree".
Step 5: On the next page, provide your Aadhaar Number, Mobile Number, and all the mandatory fields: Name, Gender, Date of Birth, and Email ID. Click "Register".

You will be successfully registered on the portal. Your login details will be displayed on the confirmation page.
Your login credentials will also be sent to the registered Mobile Number and Email ID.

Application:
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of the State Scholarship Portal, Government of Odisha: https://scholarship.odisha.gov.in/. Click "Login". Now click on "Student Login". Login using the credentials received on your Email ID / Mobile Number.
Step 2: Click on the "Schemes And Scholarship" section. Optionally, you can check your eligibility for the scheme by clicking "View Eligibility". Else click "Online Application Module For Scholarship And Loan". 
Step 3: Select "e-Medhabruti" from the dropdown menu. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the said file type and filesize.
Step 4: Click "Submit". Take two printed hard copies of the online application along with relevant documents, and submit the same to the Principal/ Head of the Institution for further processing.
Documents Required
1. Residence Certificate (to be issued by the competent authority. i.e. from the concerned Tahasildar/Addl.Tahasildar. The students whose parents are working under Odisha State Govt. can produce resident proof from the employer.)
2. Proof of Annual Income (to be issued by the competent authority. i.e. the Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tahasildar or Addl. Tahasildar.)
3. Mark Sheets of the Last Qualifying Examination (as required for different categories of merit.)
4. Bank Account details of the student concerned (First page of the bank account containing account number and IFSC).
5. College ID Card (issued by the concerned authority. While in the absence of the same, the student may provide an Admission receipt /Library Card/Letter of Undertaking from the concerned college authority in which the academic session is mentioned (Anyone)).
6. Aadhaar Card of the student concerned.
