National Awards For Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities: National Awards For Institutions Engaged In Empowering Persons With Disabilities: Divyangjanon Ke Sashaktikaran Men Karyrat Sarveshrestha Sansthan (Private Organization, NGO)
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
AwardCitizen EmpowermentInstitutionNGOPerson With DisabilityPrivate Organization
Details
The "National Awards for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities" are being awarded by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment every year since 1969 in recognition of the skills and contribution of persons with disabilities, individuals and institutions engaged in the empowerment of persons with disabilities.

Award Categories
1.  National Awards for Individual Excellence
2.  National Awards for Institutions Engaged in Empowering Persons With Disabilities

The "Divangjano ke Shashaktikaran Mein Karyrat Sarveshrestha Sansthan" award is given by DoEPwD to an organization working for the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities for a minimum period of 10 years after registration under the Society Act/ Trust Act / Section 8 of Companies Act 2013. The Department confers national awards to commemorate the 'International Day of Persons with Disabilities' which falls on 3rd December every year. The ceremony of the National Awards is held at Vigyan Bhawan. The National Awards are presented through the Hon'ble President or Hon'ble Vice President of India.

Benefits
Decoration
The Awardee is given a Certificate and a Shield

Award Categories
One Award for providing holistic comprehensive Rehabilitation Services. 
One Award for promoting and imparting Inclusive Education or educational institutions that are preparing children with disabilities for inclusive education for higher studies. 


Presentation of Award (Ceremony Details)
1.  The ceremony of the National Awards is held at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 3rd December, every year which has been declared as the “International Day of Persons with Disabilities”. 
2.  The National Awards are presented through the Hon'ble President or Hon'ble Vice President of India.
2.  The boarding and lodging expenses of the awardees and one escort shall be borne by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 
3.  To and fro travelling expenses and accommodation for up to one day prior to and after the day of the awards ceremony shall be arranged and the expenditure shall be reimbursed by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. 
4.  The TA/DA admissibility of the awardees and their escorts shall be equivalent to a Class-I officer of the Central Government.
Eligibility
For the Nominee (Institution)
Any organization working for the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities for a minimum period of 10 years after registration under Society Act/ Trust Act / Section 8 of Companies Act 2013.
1.  One Award for providing holistic comprehensive Rehabilitation Services. 
2.  One Award for Promoting and Imparting Inclusive Education or Educational Institutions That Are Preparing Children With Disabilities for Inclusive Education for Higher Studies.

Selection Criteria & Weightage
The Institution has started comprehensive service for people with various disabilities: 10% 
The Institution has adopted new equipment: 10%
The Institution has provided new services: 15%
The Institution has undertaken new strategies for  improving existing services: 10%
The Institution has followed up with the clients in rehabilitation: 5%
The Institution should have at least 10 years of experience in the field in the area of education/training/ rehabilitation etc: 10%
The contribution of the institution in the extension of outreach services in and around its working headquarters: 5%
Motivation, involvement and participation particularly in rural areas: 10%
While selecting the institutions due weightage would be given to voluntary action through the participation of the local public and efforts for rendering rehabilitation services to persons with disabilities: 5%
The geographical area in which the Institution is providing services: 5%
The category(ies) of disability for which the institution is providing services: 5%

Agencies Eligible to Make Nominations
Any State/UT/ Autonomous Body / PSU and nongovernmental organization registered under the Trust Act/Society Act/Section 8 of Company Act, 2013.
Application Process
Online
Call for Applications
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) shall intimate the opening of the National Awards Portal as well as the prescribed period for submission of applications through advertisement in the newspapers/website of the Department. Applications/nominations are invited through online mode only on the centralized portal of the Ministry of Home Affairs. (www.awards.gov.in) which is open (w.e.f. 15th June to 31st July).

Registration
Step 1: Visit the National Awards Portal. On the top right of the homepage, click "Register".
Step 2: You will be directed to the Registration Page. Fill in all the mandatory fields (marked with a Red Asterisk). 
Step 3: Check the "Declaration" checkboxes provided at the bottom of the page. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Submit".You will receive the Login Credentials on your Registered Mobile Number.

Application
Step 1: Visit the National Awards Portal. On the top right of the homepage, click "Login".
Step 2: Login using credentials. From the list of awards, select "National Awards for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities", then click "Nominate / Apply Now".
Step 3: On the next page, fill in all the mandatory fields in the online application form, and then click "Submit".

Note 1: The Application should be in Hindi or English language only.

Calendar of Activities
1. Advertisement of National Awards/Opening of National Awards Portal: 1st May 
2. Last date of receipt of applications: 31st July 
3. Constitution of Screening Committees and National Selection Committees: 31st August 
4. Meetings of the Screening Committees: 30thSeptemebr
5. Meeting of the National Selection Committee: 15th October 
6. Verification of short-listed candidates: 15th October
7. Information/confirmation to awardees: 31st October 
8. Presentation of National Awards: 3rd December (International Day of Persons with Disabilities)
Documents Required
Certificate of Registration (showing the Year of Establishment)
Proof of Address (for communication)
Proofs reg. the Nature of work undertaken by the Institution
Special or Outstanding Achievements (Certificates/Appreciation letters) in the past 10 (ten) years in the field of the Category of the Award at a) International level; b) National Level; c) State level; d) District level; e) Organisation level
 Details of Awards or Honours received (Name of the Award; Conferring Agency; Year of Conferment), if any (attach citations), along with Justification for the Award
Any other Achievement for Consideration of the Award
