Asangathit Karmakaar Mrtyu Evan Divyaang Sahaayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentFamily BenefitsFinancial Assistance
Details
In 2019, Chhattisgarh State Government started a scheme "Asangathit Karmakaar Mrtyu Evan Divyaang Sahaayata Yojana" for unorganized worker. With this scheme, family will able to get the financials benefits after the death or disability of the unorganized worker.

Benefits
Situation Financial Help
On Death ₹ 1,00,000/-
Permanent Disability ₹ 50,000/-
Eligibility
Unorganized workers must be between the ages of 18 and 60 are eligible.
Unorganized workers must be registered as beneficiaries under Section 10 (3) of the Act.
Assistance will not be provided in the case of death due to suicide, drug or substance abuse, or death due to fighting with each other with the intent to commit a crime.
Benefits will be given only on the death of the registered worker and not on the death or accident of a family member.
Beneficiaries who have benefited from the Financial Assistance and Rehabilitation Assistance Scheme for unorganized workers suffering from silicosis run by the Board will not be eligible.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Registration certificate,
Aadhar card, 
Bank passbook, 
Nominee's Aadhar card,
Address proof, 
Mobile number, 
Death certificate.
In case of permanent disability, permanent disability certificate issues by the doctor.
