Beti Hai Anmol Yojana
Himachal Pradesh
Anmol YojanaBetiFinancial Assistance
Details
Detailed 
Beti Hai Anmol is the prominent scheme of the Himachal Pradesh Government and it was launched on July 2010. This scheme is a welfare scheme to provide financial assistance to girl children of BPL Families but only up to two girls in a family. The government will deposit rupees 21,000/- per girl child to the post office or bank account. The motive is to make girls self-reliant for necessary financial assistance and education. The annual scholarship will also be provided ranging from Rs 450/- to 5000/- per year from Class 1st to Graduation for books/dresses, etc.

Objective
To change the negative narrative of family/community respect to the girl child birth.
To stop child marriage of girls.
Admission to schools and to continue the study of girls.
Assistance to girls for taking up income generating activities.
Empowering girls and making them self-reliant.
Financial support to the girls of Himachal Pradesh.
Girls can study through scholarships that provide dress or books

Benefits
The following financial assistance will be provided under Himachal Pradesh Beti Hai Anmol Yojana :- 
Stages Amount
At the time of Birth Rs. 21,000/-
From Class 1st to 3rd Rs. 450/- per year
In Class 4th  Rs. 750/- per year
In Class 5th Rs. 900/- per year
From Class 6th to 7th Rs. 1050/- per year
In Class 8th Rs. 1200/- per year
From Class 9th to 10th Rs. 1500/- per year
From Class 11th to 12th Rs. 2250/- per year
B.A, B.Com, B.Sc, etc Rs. 5000/- each year
B.E, B.Tech, MBBS, LLB, B.Ed, etc Rs. 5000/- each year
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The candidate must be a permanent resident of Himachal Pradesh
 To the girls who are below the poverty line (BPL).
 From each BPL family, only two girl children are eligible.
 All BPL girls who are born after July 5, 2010, can get the benefits of studying till class 12.
A beneficiary girl should not get married before completing 18 years.
The girl who was born after July 5, 2010, will get benefit from this scheme.
Application Process
Online
How to Apply
Applicants can apply online through the Online registration process link. 
After filling out the form submit it to the Anganwadi worker for further action.
The Anganwadi worker will open an account in the post office or in the bank.
On completion of 18 years, the entire amount will be paid to the girl child.
To get a scholarship. After admission.
An application will be written by the parents to the school headmaster.
Headmaster will give it to the project officer of Beti Hai Anmol Scheme.
It will be passed by the project officer.
Documents Required
Supporting Documents
Photocopy of Bonafide Himachali Certificate
Proof of BPL Certificate
Proof of Date of Birth of the Applicant
Letter from Head Master of the School of the applicant ( in case the applicant is studying)
Identity Proof
