Cultural Function And Production Grant Scheme
Ministry Of Culture
Cultural FunctionCultural ProductionFinancial AssistanceGrantNGOSociety
Details
The scheme “Cultural Function and Production Grant Scheme” was launched by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. The scheme covers all ‘not-for-profit’ organizations, NGOs, Societies, Trusts, and Universities for supporting Seminars, Conference, Research, Workshops, Festivals, Exhibitions, Symposia, Drama-Theatre, Music, etc., and small research projects on different aspects of Indian Culture.
Purpose of financial assistance:
Holding Conferences, Seminars, Workshops, Symposia, Festivals, Exhibitions, Production of Dance, Drama Theatre, Music, etc., and undertaking small research projects, etc. on any art forms/important cultural matters.
To meet expenditure on activities of a development nature like the conduct of surveys, pilot projects, etc. on cultural subjects including publications thereof.
Installments:
The Grant will be released in two installments of 75% (First Installment) and 25% (Second Installment).
Mode of Payment:
All payments will be made only through electronic transfers.
Accounting Procedures: Separate accounts shall be maintained in regard to the grants released by the Central Government:
The Accounts of the grantee organization shall be open to audit at any time by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or his nominee at his discretion.
The grantee organization shall submit to the Government of India, a Statement of Accounts audited by a Chartered Accountant, stating out the expenditure incurred on the approved project and indicating the utilization of the Government grant in the preceding years. If the utilization certificate is not submitted within the prescribed period, the grantee shall arrange to refund immediately the whole amount of the grant received together with interest thereon at the prevailing borrowing rate of the Government of India unless specially exempted by the Government.
The grantee organization will be open to a review by the Government of India, Ministry of Culture by appointing a committee or in any other manner decided by the Government as and when deemed necessary by the Government.
The grantee organization shall not invite foreign delegations without obtaining permission from the Ministry of External Affairs, the application for which shall invariably be routed through the Ministry of Culture.
It will be subjected to such other conditions and rules as may be prescribed by the Government of India guidelines from time to time.
Output of the Scheme:
The grantee organizations are required to upload videos of their Production/Function/ Seminar etc. on Youtube and provide a link to the Youtube/Facebook/Twitter page of the Ministry of Culture.

Benefits
The grant for specific projects shall be restricted to 75% of the expenditure, subject to a maximum of ₹5.00 lakhs per project as recommended by the Expert Committee.
The Ministry may in exceptional circumstances, increase the assistance to any project of outstanding merit and relevance up to ₹20 Lakhs with the approval of Hon’ble Minister of Culture.
Eligibility
The applicant organizations that are voluntary organizations or NGOs, should, in order to qualify for the grant, have a properly constituted managing body with its powers, duties and responsibilities clearly defined and laid down in the form of a written constitution.
The Organization should have been functioning and registered under the Societies Registration Act (XXI of 1860), Trusts Act, Companies Act, or any Central or State Act for at least three years.
The applicant organizations that are voluntary organizations or NGOs must register themselves on the NGO Darpan Portal of NITI Aayog and obtain a Unique ID from the Portal. The organizations are required to intimate the Unique ID as obtained from the NGO Darpan Portal and PAN Number of the organization while applying under the Scheme.
The Organization must have tied up or planned the matching resources at least to the extent of 25 % of the project cost.
The Organization should have facilities, resources, personnel, and experience to take up the event/project for which a grant is required.
Note 01: Past experience of holding such functions, as applied for, would be given preference.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: Applications are invited for financial assistance under the scheme from Not-For-Profit Organizations including Societies, Trusts, Companies, and Universities for supporting the seminars, research, workshops, festivals, production and exhibitions, etc. organized by them on different aspects of Indian Culture.
Step 02: Applicant Organization may send the completely documented applications, in the prescribed proforma, along with the recommendation of any of the National Academies, any culture-related organization under the Government of India, or by State Government/UT Administration/ State Academies.
Step 03: The application should be addressed to The Director, North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC), 14, CSP Singh Marg, Allahabad-211001. Telephone No. 0532-2421855, 0532-2423698.
Note 01: For any clarification please contact Section Officer, (S&F) Section at Telephone No. 011-24642157 and Director, North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC) at Telephone No. 0532-2421855, 0532-2423698.
Note 02: Organizations may apply for financial assistance under the scheme throughout the year.
Mode of Selection:
The grant under the scheme will be considered and recommended by the Expert Committee constituted for the purpose.
The scrutiny of applications by the Expert Committee will be done in its meetings held from time to time throughout the year subject to the availability of funds and applications for the grant.
The same Expert may not be allowed to recommend the proposal of the organization of which he is the Office bearer or in any other way related to the organization.
All the Expert Committee Members are required to give an undertaking that he/she is neither an office-bearers nor in any other way related to any of the organizations being considered for a grant in that CFPG meeting.
If an Expert is found to have recommended the proposal of his/her organization, the Expert and his/her organization may be debarred from selection in that particular meeting.
Documents Required
Constitution of the Organization with appropriate details
Constitution of the Board of Management or Governing Body or particulars of each member (in the case of NGOs/VOs)
Copy of the latest available Annual Report or similar documents
A statement of income and expenditure of the applicant organization for the previous three years and a copy of the balance sheet for the previous year certified by a Chartered Accountant or a Government Auditor
An Indemnity Bond in the prescribed proforma on a stamp paper of appropriate denomination
Details of the bank account in the prescribed proforma to enable the electronic transfer of sanctioned funds
A detailed project report including:
Description of the project for which assistance is requested along with its duration and qualifications and experience of the staff to be employed for the project;
Item-wise details of recurring and non-recurring expenditures separately, and
the source(s) from which counterpart funds will be obtained
