Atal Mission For Rejuvenation And Urban Transformation
Ministry Of Housing & Urban Affairs
Basic ServicesDrainageGreen SpaceNon-MotorizedParksSeptage ManagementSewerageStorm WaterUrban Transport
Details
The purpose of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) is to

Ensure that every household has access to a tap with the assured supply of water and a sewerage connection.
Increase the amenity value of cities by developing greenery and well maintained open spaces (e.g. parks) and
Reduce pollution by switching to public transport or constructing facilities for non-motorized transport (e.g. walking and cycling). 

All these outcomes are valued by citizens, particularly women, and indicators and standards have been prescribed by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA ) in the form of Service Level Benchmarks (SLBs).


Thrust Areas
The Mission will focus on the following Thrust Areas:

Water Supply
Sewerage and septage management
Storm Water Drainage to reduce flooding
Non-motorized Urban Transport
Green space/parks

Coverage
Five hundred cities have been selected under AMRUT. The category of cities that have been selected under AMRUT is given below:

All Cities and Towns with a population of over one lakh with notified Municipalities as per Census 2011, including Cantonment Boards (Civilian areas),
All Capital Cities/Towns of States/ UTs, not covered in above ,
All  Cities/  Towns  classified  as  Heritage  Cities  by  MoHUA  under  the  HRIDAY Scheme,
Thirteen Cities and Towns on the stem of the main rivers with a population above 75,000 and less than 1 lakh, and
Ten Cities from hill states, islands and tourist destinations (not more than one from each State).

Benefits
The components of the AMRUT consist of capacity building, reform implementation, water supply, sewerage and septage management, storm water drainage, urban transport and development of green spaces and parks. During the process of planning, the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) will strive to include some smart features in the physical infrastructure components.

The details of the Mission components are given below.
Water Supply
Water supply systems including augmentation of existing water supply, water treatment plants and universal metering.
Rehabilitation of old water supply systems, including treatment plants.
Rejuvenation of water bodies specifically for drinking water supply and recharging of ground water.
Special water supply arrangement for difficult areas, hill and coastal cities, including those having water quality problems (e.g. arsenic, fluoride)

Sewerage
Decentralised, networked underground sewerage systems, including augmentation of existing sewerage systems and sewage treatment plants.
Rehabilitation of old sewerage system and treatment plants.
Recycling of water for beneficial purposes and reuse of wastewater.

Septage
Faecal Sludge Management- cleaning, transportation and treatment in a cost-effective manner.
Mechanical and biological cleaning of sewers and septic tanks and recovery of operational cost in full.

Storm Water Drainage
Construction and improvement of drains and storm water drains in order to reduce and eliminate flooding.

Urban Transport
Ferry vessels for inland waterways (excluding port/bay infrastructure) and buses.
Footpaths/walkways, sidewalks, foot over-bridges and facilities for non-motorised transport (e.g. bicycles).
Multi-level parking.
Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS).

Green space and parks
Development of green space and parks with special provision for child-friendlycomponents.

Reforms management & support
Support structures, activities and funding support for reform implementation.
Independent Reform monitoring agencies.

 Capacity Building
This has two components- individual and institutional capacity building.
The capacity building will not be limited to the Mission Cities, but will be extended to other ULBs as well.
Continuation of the Comprehensive Capacity Building Programme (CCBP) after its realignment towards the new Missions.

Indicative (not exhaustive) list of inadmissible components
Purchase of land for projects or project related works,
Staff salaries of both the State Governments/ULBs,
Power,
Telecom,
Health,
Education, and
Wage employment programme and staff component.
Eligibility
This is an open scheme and there is no eligibility required for the scheme.

Five hundred cities have been selected under AMRUT.
Application Process
Offline
The applicant need not apply for the scheme.
Projects will be executed by Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). 
In case the ULBs do not have adequate capacity to handle projects, the State Government may recommend in State Annual Action Plan (SAAP), upon a Resolution passed by the ULB, for the execution of the projects by specialized parastatal agencies of the State or Central Governments. Such arrangements should necessarily be executed by way of a tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) amongst the State Government, the specialized Parastatal agencies and the concerned Municipality. 
In such a case, the capacity of the ULBs will be augmented through the capacity-building component of the AMRUT. The maintenance and upkeep of the created assets will be the responsibility of the ULB and the State Government. 
Documents Required
There are no documents required for the scheme.
