Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Agricultural MarketingFarmerPromoterStorage Infrastructure
Details
The scheme envisages value addition and processing at farmers level so as to enhance their income by selling more marketable and processed produce in the market. For creation of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure including scientific Storage capacity, the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India is implementing capital subsidy sub-scheme “Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure (AMI)” of Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing (ISAM) across the country and is continued till 31.03.2026

Projects for creation of storage infrastructure (50-5000 MT for Private &Cooperatives and 50-10,000 MT for State agencies) and other marketing infrastructure projects (other than storage) are eligible for assistance under the scheme.

AMI is an open ended, demand driven, credit linked, back ended subsidy scheme. Beneficiaries viz, Individuals, Agri-preneurs, farmers, FPOs, Cooperatives, and state agencies etc. are eligible for assistance. Under the scheme, the subsidy @ 25% for plain areas and 33.33% for NER, hilly area, Women/SC/ST promoters & FPOs etc is available for development of Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Projects including storage infrastructure, Infrastructure for development/Upgradation of Rural Haats as Grameen Agricultural Market (GrAMs), Common Facilitation Centre for FPOs, Marketing infrastructures in market yards, Infrastructure for direct marketing, Mobile infrastructure for post-harvest operations including reefer vans, Stand-alone cold storages up to 1000 MTs, Integrated Value Chain (IVC) Projects up to primary processing stage etc. Assistance under the sub-scheme is inter-alia available to Individuals, Farmers, Group of farmers/growers, Registered Farmer Produce Organizations (FPOs) / FPCs, firms, companies, corporations, NGOs, SHGs, Cooperatives, Cooperative Marketing Federations, Autonomous Bodies of the Government, Local Bodies, Panchayats, State Agencies etc.

Benefits
The scheme envisages the following benefits:
1) Ensure remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce
2) Alternative &competitive marketing channels
3) Promotion of small size processing units
4) Reduce post-harvest & handling losses
5) Promote pledge financing and market access
6) Farmer-consumer market linkages and also to assist in integration GrAMs with e-NAM portal
Eligibility
Anyone can apply for the scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01:Promoter applies for Term Loan (TL) to Financial Institution (FI) 
Step 02:Tem loan sanctioned by FIs
Step 03:FI applies for Advance Subsidy within 90 days of disbursal of First instalment of TL through ENSURE portal of NABARD
Step 04:NABARD, sanctions and releases the Advance Subsidy to the FI
Step 05:After completion of the project, FI will submit final subsidy claim to NABARD and requests for Joint Monitoring Inspection (JMI)
Step 06: NABARD will initiate action for conduct of JMI and Geo-tagged photograph taken during JMI is uploaded to the Ensure Portal
Step 07: NABARD sanctions and releases final subsidy to the FI
Documents Required
1) Forwarding letter of Controlling / nodal Office of the financing branch.
   • The advance subsidy claim application of financing branch should be routed through the Controlling / nodal Office to NABARD clearly certifying that all documents as per this check list are enclosed. 
   • The complete address with telephone/fax numbers of the controlling / nodal office as well as the financing branch are required to be furnished
   • A copy of the letter together with a copy of the claim application should be endorsed to DMI RO / SO

  2) Advance subsidy claim application as per format in Annexure-V
  3) Copy of project report with item-wise details of costs, total outlay, loan and margin submitted by the promoter with a copy of the technical and financial appraisal report from the FI
 4) Copy of the approved plan/ map and civil drawings clearly indicating the dimensions and capacity.
 5) Copy of the loan sanction letter of the FI along with copies of invoices for purchase of machinery/equipment of infrastructure project if any. Copy of Term Loan Account Statement of the borrower indicating all transactions including disbursement of first instalment of loan
 6) Copy of land documents where the project is going to be established.
 7) FI’s certificate on category of the Promoter. In case of SC/ST entrepreneur and Cooperative, certification by the Competent Authority should be obtained.
 8) Notarized Affidavit in Original executed by the promoter on a non-judicial stamp paper as per Annexure XV.
 9) Copy of duly registered partnership deed, if it is a partnership firm, Memorandum& Articles of Association and certificate of incorporation, in case of Private Limited Company etc.
