Mukhayamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna
Uttarakhand
Agriculture DepartmentMukhayamantriSaur Swarojgar
Details
Details 
In the Himalayan belt of northern India, Uttarakhand (“State”) is a state that is known for its natural beauty, religious significance, and some of India’s richest forests and biodiversity. However, this natural heritage would be at risk due to the increasing impact of global warming and climate change. The state recognises the urgent need to act on climate change by reducing dependence on fossil fuels and adopting cleaner forms of energy that lead to energy security and inclusive growth of its economy.

All such small entrepreneurs, who require less capital to run their businesses, will be provided with a minimum formality of Rs. Collateral free loan facility up to 50,000 will be made available. Industry, service, business and primary sector activities, including agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, poultry, fisheries, meat processing/sale up to Rs. Projects up to Rs 50,000 will be financed through banks. Collateral security will not be taken on the sanctioned loan. 

The scheme will be publicized through various information mediums and motivation camps will be organized at the district level to adopt self-employment through the District Industry Center. Micro businessmen/entrepreneurs will be given all kinds of information and every possible help/guidance for the operation/re-operation of enterprises/businesses in these camps. District Lead Bank Officer and Block Development Officer will also cooperate in this work.

Objective 
The main objectives of the scheme are as follows:-
To ensure availability of term loans/working capital loans/combination loans to small businessmen/entrepreneurs in rural and urban areas and migrants who have returned to the state due to Covid-19 for operation/re-operation of their own enterprise/business.
Creation of employment opportunities in rural areas by promoting the establishment of micro-services, businesses and small industries for self-employment.
Encouraging to take maximum advantage of the Mudra Loan Scheme (Shishu).
To strengthen the economy of small businessmen/entrepreneurs in rural and urban areas.

Loans and Grants 
After the payment of the first instalment of the loan sanctioned by the banks, the grant/grant will be released in one lump sum to the concerned financing bank and the loan released by the financing bank will be disbursed to the beneficiary's loan after successful operation of the enterprise/business after 02 years. account will be adjusted. The grant/grant will be paid to the concerned bank branch by direct benefit transfer to the beneficiary's account through the portal https://msy.uk.gov.in developed under the Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana.

Benefits
Benefits
70% loan (8% ROI) with a 25% subsidy
No Educational Barriers
Employment generation.
Eligibility
Eligibility
The age of the applicant at the time of application should be minimum 18 years and the maximum age should not exceed 65 years.
There is no requirement for educational qualification.
The applicant should be a permanent/native resident of the state.
The applicant should not be a defaulter of any nationalized bank/financial institution/cooperative institution or other institution.
The borrower should have the necessary knowledge regarding the conduct of the proposed activity.
The applicant should be an account holder of the financing bank of the concerned area.
If any permission/clearance is required for the operation / re-operation of a business/service / enterprise, permission/clearance will have to be obtained from the competent authority of the particular area.
It will be mandatory for the candidates of ex-servicemen/women / disabled / scheduled caste / scheduled tribe to attach a self-attested copy of the certificate issued by the competent authority with the application form to get the benefits under the scheme.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
The applicant needs to visit official website.
Select "Mukhayamantri Saur Swarojgar" and choose "Click here to apply".
Provide the authentication through Mobile OTP. 
Now provide the required information/details
Upload the necessary documents
Documents Required
List of required documents 
Permanent residence certificate.
Aadhaar Card.
Photograph.
Project description in detail. 
Application fee draft certificate.
