Grant of Quality Certification Reimbursement of Charges
Tamil Nadu
BusinessCertificationEnterpriseMSMEQualityReimbursement
Details
The scheme "Grant of Quality Certification Reimbursement of Charges" by the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, is introduced to encourage MSMEs to acquire quality standards/certifications for processes and products, or any other international quality certification recognized in India by a competent authority. The government reimburses payments made to Consultancy and certification agencies for acquiring National and International Level Quality Certifications.

Benefits
Reimbursement of payments made to Consultancy and Certification Agencies towards acquiring Quality Certification, subject to a ceiling of ₹ 2,00,000/- for National Level Certification and ₹ 10,00,000/- for International Level Certification.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an MSME in the state of Tamil Nadu.
Components Eligible for Reimbursement Subsidy
Payments made for consultancy and certification agencies.
Calibration and testing charges for certification from the NABL-accredited testing lab.
Application Process
Online

Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu. In the top ribbon, click "Login / Registration".
In the registration form, fill in the mandatory details accurately, Name, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Number, Email ID, and Mobile Number. Create a new password. The password must contain a minimum of 8 characters, 1 Upper Case Letter, 1 Lower Case Letter, and 1 Numeric Field.
Fill in the captcha code, and click "Register".

Step 2: Login
Visit the Login Page and click "Login", and then fill in the credentials received on your registered Email ID and the registered Mobile Number.

Step 3: Form Filling
After successfully logging in, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click on the concerned scheme from the dropdown.
On the next page, hover over "Apply Online" in the top ribbon, and then click on "New Application" from the dropdown.
Fill in all the mandatory fields of the Application Form. Carefully review all the information provided, acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy, and then click "Proceed".
Note down the reference number appearing on the screen and then click "Close".

Step 4: Upload Documents
Now, hover over "Schemes" in the top ribbon, and then click "Upload Documents" from the dropdown.
On the next page, provide the Application ID and click "Submit".
On the next page, upload all the mandatory documents in the specified format and size.
After uploading the documents, click "View" to verify the documents uploaded for correctness.

Step 5: Submission
Fill in all the checkboxes appearing at the bottom of the screen and then click "Submit Application".
The message regarding the submission of the online application to GM/DIC / RJD will be received on your mobile phone.

(Optional) Step 6: Track Application Status
You can check the status of your application here. The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.

NOTE 1: The application and the documents submitted through the online portal are sufficient and there is no need to submit the hard copy of the application and documents to GM/DIC/RJD either in person or by Post.
NOTE 2: The application should be submitted within 1 year from the date of certification.
Documents Required
1. Copy of Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum / Copy of Udyam Certificate.
2. Certificate of Registration under the Indian Partnership Act / LLP / Societies Registration Act / Certificate of Incorporation.[Memorandum of Association & Articles of Association] under the Company Act.
3. Proof for connected load, i.e., EB Meter card/online Statement.
4. Copy of invoices, cash bills, and stamped receipts.
5. Copy of ISO 9000/ISO 14001/ISO 22000/HACCP/GHP/GMP/ZED/International certificate.
6. Copy of the Registration Certificate with the National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB).
*The file type should be PDF (.pdf). The file size should be less than 200 kb.
