Tea Development and Promotion Scheme (TDPS): Plantation Development for Small Tea Growers (PDSTG): Mechanization for Individual Small Growers
Ministry Of Commerce And Industry
AgricultureFarmerPlantationSubsidyTea
Details
The Government of India has conveyed its approval for the Tea Board’s Scheme “Tea Development & Promotion Scheme” for implementation during the 15th Finance Commission (2021-26). The scheme has seven major components covering the broad areas of the Tea Board’s operation for the overall protection, growth & sustenance of the Indian Tea Industry.

The objective of the scheme is to improve the production, productivity, and quality of Indian teas in order to remain competitive in global markets, focus on the development of the small tea growers, their collectivization for moving up in the value chain, value addition in teas for better price realization and share in export markets, explore the potential of tea grown in the North Eastern States, focus on improving the per capita consumption of tea, improving tea exports from India to high-value markets, encouraging research and development and other technological innovation to bring transparency in the entire supply chain as envisaged in the Tea Act, 1953.

"Plantation Development for Small Tea Growers (PDSTG)" Component of the TDPS
The objective of this component is to increase the production, productivity and quality of tea, overall development of small tea growers to help them move up in the value chain, sustainability of production by promoting organic tea cultivation& climate resilient tea and to make them self-reliant by setting up their own processing units. 

Benefits
Equipment and Scale of Assistance 
Equipment: Pruning Machine; Ceiling Limit (₹): 30,000; Other Eligibility: One (1) Machine for each / upto 5.00 ha of tea area
Equipment: Mechanical Harvester; Ceiling Limit (₹): Single Man Harvester @ 25,000; Double Man Harvester @ 40,000; Other Eligibility: For each / up to 10.00 ha of tea area
Equipment: Power Sprayer; Ceiling Limit (₹): 15,000; Other Eligibility: For each / up to 5.00 ha of tea area
Equipment: Brush Cutter; Ceiling Limit (₹): 28,000; Other Eligibility: For each / up to 10.00 ha of tea area
Equipment: Plucking Shear; Ceiling Limit (₹): 550; Other Eligibility: For each/ up to 0.40 Ha of tea area

Mode of Payment
All payments will be through electronic mode i.e., RTGS/NEFT/PFMS.
Eligibility
The applicants can be small tea growers including members of self-help groups and Farmers' Producer Organizations.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 1: Registration
Visit the official portal of the Tea Board.
To create an account, click on the "Register" or "Sign Up" button. You'll be asked to provide information such as Name, date of birth, Gender, Mobile Number and Email Address.
Choose a username and password. Ensure the password meets security requirements.
After providing your details, you will receive a One-Time Password (OTP) on your registered mobile number and email. Enter the OTP to verify your identity.

Step 3: Application
Use the credentials you created during registration to log in. Once logged in, you'll access your user dashboard. Navigate to the Online Application Form of the Scheme. In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the necessary documents.
Carefully review all the information provided and the documents uploaded. Make any necessary corrections.
Acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy.
Click the "Submit" button to send your application. After the successful submission of the application, an acknowledgement will be generated by the system.

Step 4: Check Application Status
You can track your application status on your dashboard using the Application Reference ID.
The portal may provide updates via email or SMS regarding your application status.

NOTE: Only one application under each component will be considered, however, the applicant may apply for more than one activity in a single application as per the eligibility.

Application Fee
All the applications shall be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee of ₹ 100/- (Rupees one hundred only) + GST (Exempted for SC, ST, female and differently-abled persons). No application will be accepted without payment of application fees except for exempted stakeholders.
Documents Required
Tea Board registration or identity smart card (QR-based) issued by Tea Board/ have a unique identification number generated.
Survey map (A-4 size) of the tea area in case of individual small tea growers drawn by a government-approved surveyor/Land Revenue department duly certified and signed by both the issuing authority as well as the applicant, wherever applicable.
Self-declaration under PPC compliance.
Aadhar Card in case of individual/ PAN/TAN/GST registration in case of others, as applicable.
Details of Bank Account (linked with mobile number and Aadhar) for claiming financial assistance with IFSC code (one cancelled cheque is to be uploaded).
Copy of recent resolution in case of SHGs/FPOs/FPCs along with the details of office bearer and members with tea area in command.
NOTE: Applicant (small tea growers) who does not have the identity Card issued by the Tea Board can obtain the same on the production of documents to establish the ownership of land and where title deeds are not available, a possession certificate issued by the concerned State Government from the nearest field office. 
