Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana
Uttar Pradesh
Financial AssistanceSamuhik VivahUttar Pradesh
Details
Detailed 
In order to promote communal and social harmony, state government has started “Mass Wedding Scheme since October, 2017.
 Under this scheme wedding programs are conducted according to the rituals being practiced in various communities and religions. Another objective of the scheme is to abolish the unwanted and extravagance in wedding ceremonies.
Families of all communities having annual income of Rs. 2,00,000/- from all sources are covered under this scheme.
Under this scheme, an amount of Rs. 35,000/- is deposited in the bank account of bride for establishment of household and required material for wedding like apparels, ornaments, utensils etc. are provided to the couple from Rs. 10,000/- . Apart from it, Rs. 6000/- are provisioned to expense on per marriage. Thus a total amount of Rs. 51,000/- is provisioned for per marriage.
Registration and wedding of minimum 10 couples, mass wedding organization has been arranged at urban bodies (Nagar Panchayat, Municipal Committee, Municipal Corporation) Area Panchayat, Zila Panchayat level.

Benefits
Benefits
Under this scheme, an amount of Rs. 35,000/- is deposited in the bank account of the bride for the establishment of the household and required materials for the wedding like apparel, ornaments, utensils etc. are provided to the couple from Rs. 10,000/- . Apart from it, Rs. 6000/- is provisioned to expense on per marriage. 
Thus a total amount of Rs. 51,000/- is provisioned per marriage.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
 Family income from all sources should be within Rs.2,00,000  per annum.
This scheme is open to all communities.
The age of the registered girl should be 18 years or more and the age of the groom should be at least 21 years.
At least 10 couples are required to participate in this Mass Marriage Ceremony.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Applicants have to visit the official website of UP Collective Marriage Scheme shadianudan.upsdc.gov.in.
From here you have to download the application form.
Now you have to fill the information asked in the Collective Marriage Grant Scheme form.
After filling all the information, you have to attach all your documents with your form.
Now you have to submit this filled form in the Social Welfare Department of the nearest Gram Panchayat / Municipal Corporation, Municipality, District Headquarters.
In this way, you will be given the benefit of this scheme when you get married.
Documents Required
List of the required documents 
Photo of bride and groom (couple)
Aadhaar card or Voter ID card of the couple (bride and groom)
Birth certificate of the bride and groom (couple)
Bank passbook of newly married girl
Address proof
Income certificate of the applying family
Caste Certificate (only for Scheduled Castes (SC) / Tribes (ST) and Other Backward Classes (OBC))
