Theka Shramik, Hamaal Shramik Evan Gharelu Mahila Kamgar Gambhir Bimaari Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
Financial AssistanceHealthWellness
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Theka Shramik, Hamaal Shramik Evan Gharelu Mahila Kamgar Gambhir Bimaari Chikitsa Sahayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 05 June 2018. The main objective of the scheme to provides financial assistance for serious illness. 

Benefits
Medical aid of ₹ 50,000/- will be provided for the treatment of registered contract workers, Hamal workers and female domestic workers who are suffering from serious illness.
Serious diseases under the scheme will include kidney, cancer, sickle cell anemia, heart disease, AIDS and paralysis.
Eligibility
Applicant must be registered with the State Social Security Board at least 90 days in advance.
Applicant must be in the age group of 18 to 60 years will be eligible for this scheme.
Applicant can be only received benefits at once. 
If applicant received from any other parallel scheme of the State Government, then he/she is not eligible for this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Application form.
Aadhaar card.
Labor Registration Card.
Voter ID card.
PAN card.
