Safai Karmakaar Kaushal Unnayan Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmploymentEmpowermentSanitation WorkersTraining
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Safai Karmakaar Kaushal Unnayan Yojana" for unorganized worker on 10 April 2018. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by  training to to unorganized workers and sanitation workers and their families for the trades identified by the Technical Education Department (CSSDA) of the State Government from time to time.

Benefits
Training will be given to unorganized workers and sanitation workers and their families.
Eligibility
sanitation workers must be registered. 
Applicant age must be above 18 years. 
Applicant must not receiving any other parallel scheme of the state government.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Apply Now
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Copy of ration card.
