Biotechnology Post-Doctoral Fellowship
Kerala
BiotechnologyFellowshipPhDPost-DoctoralStipendYoung Researcher
Details
The “Biotechnology Post-Doctoral Fellowship (BPDF)” programme is offered to young researchers who have completed their PhD in relevant areas of Biotechnology for promoting independent research mentored by eminent scientists/faculty in reputed institutions by providing fellowship.

Benefits
The Post-Doctoral Fellowship carries an amount of ₹32,000/- per month + HRA (10%) with an annual contingent grant of ₹50,000/-.
Candidates who have submitted a thesis for a PhD and are awaiting the award of a PhD, will be paid only ₹22,000/- per month + 10% HRA.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Kerala State.
The applicant should possess a first-class Master’s Degree in Life Sciences including Veterinary Science, Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries or a Master’s Degree in Medicine followed by PhD in biotechnologically relevant aspects with quality publications in indexed (SCI) journals.
The candidates with the above qualifications who have submitted their PhD thesis and with quality publications in indexed (SCI) journals.
The Fellowship is open to candidates below 35 years, but relaxable up to a maximum of 5 years for SC/ST/Women and Physically handicapped candidates.
Applicant should not be receiving any fellowship or grant from any other source.
Those who have already availed of one Post-Doctoral Fellowship from KSCSTE or elsewhere are not eligible to apply for a second Post-Doctoral Fellowship. 
Note: Post-Doctoral fellows availing any other source of financial assistance/stipend from other state/central funding agencies will not be simultaneously eligible for the Kerala Biotechnology Commission (KBC) Post-Doctoral fellowship.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited twice every year during January and June and are to be submitted online when notified. (Application Form)
Scrutiny of the Application:
The project proposal will be acknowledged with a reference number and other instructions, if any. Post-Doctoral Fellows are selected by assessment of the PhD work carried out, merit of a new project proposal, and personal interview by an expert committee.
Peer review:
The Post-Doctoral Fellow may be called for a presentation before an expert committee.
Presentation before Expert Committee (whether RC or RAC):
The expert committee assesses the content and objectives of the proposed work. The decision of Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) based on the recommendations of the expert committee on such proposals shall be final.
Date of Start of the Project:
The Post-Doctoral Fellow should join a suitable institution under the Council or any R&D Institution/University other than his/her parent institution so as to get exposure to a new research environment. If the parent institution is selected, the same has to be justified in terms of the smooth implementation of the research work, with reasons thereof. 
Contact Details:
Advisor, Kerala Biotechnology Commission Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE),
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 695 004
Telephone: (0471) 2548406, 2548259
E-mail: kbc.kscste@kerala.gov.in 
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Proof of age
3. PhD Certificate
4. Educational certificates/P.G. Mark list and Certificate
5. Residence proof /Proof of Kerala nativity
6. Best 3 reprints
7. Experience certificate
8. Details of the R&D Project 
9. Declaration by the Applicant
10. The applicant should furnish an undertaking to the effect that he/she is not availing financial assistance stipend from any other source.
11. Consent from Scientist Mentor
12. Endorsement from the Head of Host Institution
13. Any other document, if required
