Junior Research Fellowship In Engineering & Technology
Ministry of Education
FellowshipScience
Details
INTRODUCTION 
The scheme "Junior Research Fellowship in Engineering & Technology" by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education is meant for candidates who wish to pursue research leading to a Ph.D. degree in engineering and technology. As of date, the University Grants Commission (UGC) or the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) are not conducting National Education Testing (NET) examinations in these fields. Therefore, M.Pharma and M.E., M.Tech. students are given this opportunity, through direct interviews conducted by the Commission. There are 50 slots under this scheme per year.

OBJECTIVES 
The objective of this scheme is to provide an opportunity to research scholars to undertake advanced study and research in engineering and technology, and agricultural engineering, leading to Ph.D. Subjects like geology and geo-physics are not considered under this scheme. 

Benefits
NATURE OF ASSISTANCE
The tenure of the fellowship is initially for a period of two years as a Junior Research Fellowship (JRF). 
After the expiry of two years the work of the fellow will be evaluated by experts and if found satisfactory, his/her tenure will be extended for a further period of three years with enhanced emoluments as a Senior Research Fellowship (SRF). 
In case the work of the fellow for the first two years is not found satisfactory, one more year will be given to him/her for improvement, but during this period he/she will be designated as a Junior Research Fellow. In such cases work will again be evaluated after three years, and if the improvement is found, the fellow will get two more years under the SRF. 
Thus, the total period of fellowship (JRF and SRF) is five years, which is non-extendable. The awardee can avail research fellowship for the full tenure of the fellowship or up to the date of award of the Ph.D. degree, whichever is earlier. 


The assistance available under the scheme is: 
Fellowship @ Rs. 14,000/- p.m. for the initial two years, @ Rs.15,000/- for the remaining period 
Contingency @ Rs.12,000/- p.a. for the initial two years, @Rs.25,000/- p.a. for the remaining period 
Departmental Assistance @ Rs. 3,000/- p.a. per student to the host institute for providing, infrastructure to the researcher 
Escorts/Reader Assistance @Rs.2,000/- p.m. in cases of physically handicapped and blind candidates 
HRA As per the rule of the concerned institution 

House Rent Allowance: 
Suitable single-seated hostel accommodation in the institutions may be provided to the Fellow, failing which HRA as per rules of the university/institution 
will be paid, subject to the submission of the HRA certificate through the registrar/principal. Research Fellows provided with accommodation in hostels recognized/maintained by the institutions may be reimbursed the hostel fee, excluding mess, electricity and water charges, etc. A certificate to this effect is to be furnished through the registrar/principal (Annexure I). If the Fellow makes his/her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she may be entitled to draw HRA as per the categorization of cities by the Government of India. The Fellow will submit a certificate to UGC for claiming HRA through the concerned university/institution/college. 

Medical: 
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the fellow may avail the medical facilities available in the institution/university. 

Leave: 
Research Fellows are entitled to a maximum period of 30 days leave in a year in addition to public holidays. They are not entitled to any other leave, for example, summer, winter, pooja vacations, etc. Women candidates are eligible for maternity leave of 135 days at full rates of fellowship once during the tenure of their award. 

Note-1: The Research Fellow, in special cases, may be allowed by the Commission, to leave without fellowship for up to one academic year during the entire tenure of the award for accepting teaching assignments on a temporary basis, provided the assignment is in the same city/town.
Note-2: In other cases, leave without fellowship will be restricted to a period not exceeding three months during the tenure of the award on the recommendations of the supervisor and the head of the institution.
Note-3: The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the total tenure of the fellowship.
Note-4: Fellows are advised to apply for leave through their university/institution/college well in advance for the approval of the Commission.
Eligibility
All Minimum qualifications are a master's degree in engineering/technology/pharmacy, with 55 percent marks. 
GATE is not a mandatory condition for getting a research fellowship to pursue Ph.D. 
Candidates need to hold an M.E./M.Tech. degree.
The age limit is 40 years as on 1 July of the year of the award, extendable by five years for women and SC/ST candidates. 
A total of 22.5 percent of the fellowships are reserved for candidates belonging to SC/ST who fulfill the requisite qualifications laid down for the award. In case of the non-availability of SC/ST candidates, these slots will be made available to general candidates.
Application Process
Online
PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR THE SCHEME
Applications are invited in the prescribed format (Annexure II) once in a year through advertisements in leading newspapers and the AIU Newsletter for the award of a research fellowship in engineering and technology for pursuing research leading to a Ph.D. Selection will be made on the basis of merit, and candidates will be interviewed by an expert committee appointed by the Commission.

PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF THE UGC 
Received applications will be scrutinized, and short-listed candidates will be called to appear 
before the selection committee, constituted by the Commission. No TA/DA will be paid for attending the interview. The decision of the Commission will be final and binding. The Commission reserves the right to withdraw/cancel the award without assigning any reason. On completion of the above formalities, the Joining Report of the candidate, duly signed by the supervisor/head of department is to be sent to the UGC through the registrar/principal. On receipt of the Joining Report and other required documents (Annexure III), the admissible grant for the first year will be released or the concerned university will be informed to release the grant from the funds already sanctioned.
Documents Required
Duly Filled Application Form
Aadhaar Number
Proof of DOB (Birth Certificate or Class 10th Marksheet)
Proof of Address
Proof of educational qualifications (mark sheets, certificates, diplomas, etc.)
Certificate from the head of the department/institution
A brief abstract not exceeding 500 words on the proposed research work methods of approach, etc. must be sent along with the application.
Proof reg. Employment Status (if currently employed)
Declaration
Basic Data Sheet
Caste certificate (if applicable)
Minority certificate (if applicable)
Physical disability certificate (if applicable)
Bank Details
ID proof provided by the government
