Gomant Vibhushan Award
Goa
ArtistAwardCultureLiteraturePhilosophy
Details
The scheme "Gomant Vibhushan Award" has been designed by the Directorate of Art and Culture, Government of Goa in order to honour and recognize the Goan renowned personalities who have contributed to the distinguished and extraordinary achievements/ services in any field of activities/disciplines such as art & culture, literature & education, sports, medicine, social work, civil services, public affairs, trade, science & engineering, industry, economics, philosophy, politics, or any other field at national & international level. The Gomant Vibhushan Award shall be given once in two years. 

Objectives
To honour the Goan-origin personalities who have done admirable & exceptional work in their field. 
To felicitate the Goan Personalities who made Goa proud by their achievements & reputation and brought recognition to Goa nationally & internationally.

Benefits
A Memento, citation and financial purse to the extent of ₹ 5,00,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should possess distinguished and exceptional achievements/services in fields of activities/disciplines such as art & culture, literature & education, sports, medicine, social work, civil services, public affairs, trade, science & engineering, industry, economics, philosophy, politics, or any other field at national & international level.
The applicant should be of Goan origin.
No award will be presented posthumously under this scheme. However, during the process of selection if the death of such an artist occurs after the recommendation of the name, then the Task Force Committee may consider his name for an “award”, in such circumstances award will be presented posthumously.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma 
of 
the application form of the respective scheme, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director or to the ACO-III, Directorate of Art & Culture, Phone: 0832-2404606, Email: aco6-dac.goa@nic.in
Documents Required
Copy of ID Proof of Recommender (person who is recommending) 
Recommendee Biodata (person who is being recommended) 
Photograph of the Recommendee (Passport Size)
