National Renewable Energy Internship Scheme
Ministry Of New and Renewable Energy
GraduationInternshipRenewable EnergyStudent
Details
The "National Renewable Energy Internship (NREI) Scheme" by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) provides internship opportunities to facilitate students pursuing undergraduate/graduate/post-graduate degrees or research scholars enrolled in recognized institutes/universities within India or abroad, as “Interns”. The students of various Engineering, Science, Management, law and other streams may undertake internships in the Ministry and in organizations under its aegis to understand various activities of the Ministry to become Researchers/Managers in the renewable energy area. These interns will be attached to the senior-level officers of the Ministry in various Programme Divisions. These interns can work for a period of two months to six months. The scheme also provides opportunities to personnel engaged in projects related to policy research/promotion/demonstration and deployment of renewable energy in national and international research/institutes and financial institutions to work as Interns in the Ministry /its organisations.

Purpose
The "Interns" shall have an opportunity to learn about the Ministry’s functioning, programmes and policy, and issues in Renewable Energy and contribute to generating inputs such as analysis, technical reports/ technology advancement/ project reports/policy papers, etc. for the furtherance of the objectives of this Ministry.

Period
The internship is available twice a year based on the MNRE requirement.

Number
A maximum of 20 interns per year. 

Duration
Will be from two to six months to be counted from the day of the start of the internship. 
No intern would be allowed to repeat or extend the internship.

Benefits
Stipend
A stipend amount of ₹ 15,000/- per month will be provided for physical internships only. 
NOTE: For virtual internships, the stipend will not be provided.

Certificate of Internship
Certificates will be issued to the interns on satisfactory completion of their internship and evaluation of their Report/Paper by the concerned.

Logistic Support
MNRE shall provide them with internet facilities and other necessities as deemed fit by the concerned Heads for physical internship. 
NOTE: Interns will be required to have their own Laptops. They shall also make their own lodging and boarding arrangements.
Eligibility
The applicant should be pursuing a graduate or post-graduate degree course in Engineering/ Management/ Law/ Science stream/Renewable Energy in a recognized University/institution within India or abroad.
OR
The applicant should be working in the Renewable Energy area in National, International, and Non-Governmental Institutes/organisations.

NOTE: MNRE will have the power to relax any of the above conditions mentioned, in respect of any deserving candidate.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the official website of the MNRE.
Step 2: In the Online Application Form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents (self-attest if required) in the mentioned filesize and filetype.
Step 3: Click "Submit", and note down the Application ID for future reference.

NOTE 1: The students/candidates can apply on a half-yearly basis (preferably July and January) online only.
NOTE 2: The intern must clearly indicate the area of interest. (Ministry’s thrust research areas & programme areas/vision can be obtained from the website).
NOTE 3: The application shall be made at least one month before the expected date of joining and not more than 3 months in advance from the date of commencement.

Selection Process
Step 1: All applications will be scrutinized by the Selection Committee constituted by the Ministry. 
Step 2: Offers will be sent to selected interns subject to the availability of slots, consent of the concerned Division 
and approval of the Selection Committee. The HRD division will upload the list of selected candidates on the MNRE website.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Passport size photograph
Passing Certificate / Degree / Marksheet of Graduation / Post Graduation
A Letter from the Supervisor / Head of the Department / Principal indicating their Status in the Institution
No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Institution
Proof of Identity
Proof of Address
Identity Card / Proof of Enrolment into the Institute
Details of the Bank Account (for the disbursement of stipend)

NOTE 1: The selected candidates will produce original marksheets and NOC from the college/institution at the time of joining, failing which his/her candidature shall be cancelled.
NOTE 2: Interns will be required to furnish to the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy a "Declaration of Secrecy" before reporting for the internship.
