Dr. S. Radhakrishnan UGC Post-Doctoral Fellowship
Ministry of Education
FellowshipResearch
Details
The scheme "Dr. S. Radhakrishnan UGC Post-Doctoral Fellowship" is a fellowship scheme by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education (DoHE). Post-doctoral research is an important enabling step in grooming young researchers for launching an academic/research career. A post-doctoral stint also provides an opportunity to acquire new skills, broaden one's horizon and offer a platform for transition into cross-disciplinary areas. University Grants Commission provides opportunities for post-doctoral research under the UGC Post-doctoral fellowship schemes.

Objective:
The objective of these fellowships is to provide an opportunity to carry out advanced studies and research in Sciences, Engineering, and Technology, Humanities & Social Sciences including languages in Indian Universities/Institutions. The tenure of the fellowship is 3 years with no provision for further extension. 

Benefits
No. of Slots: 900 
The slots will be allocated as per Govt. of India reservation policy. However, 30% of slots will be reserved for women candidates.

Nature of Assistance:
Fellowship @ ₹ 50,000/- p.m. 
Contingency @ ₹ 50,000/- p.a. 
Escorts/Reader Assistance @ ₹ 3000/-p.m.(fixed) in cases of PWD (Person with disability)

Norms for Utilizing Contingency Grant:
The Contingency grant may be utilized for minor equipment useful for research such as laboratory equipment or laptop costing less than ₹ 50,000/-, chemicals, and other research-specific items within the ceiling of ₹ 1,00,000 p.a. with the approval of the host university/institution. The items purchased from the contingency grant are assets of the university/institution and at the end of the fellowship are to be handed over to the host university/institution. The contingency grant cannot be used for international travel or the purchase of furniture.

HRA
Hostel accommodation may be provided to the scholars by their institutions. In such cases, the scholar is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding mess, electricity, water charges, etc. If the scholar makes his/her own arrangements for accommodation, he/she shall be entitled to draw HRA as per the ceiling and categorization of cities by the Govt. of India. In case, the scholar wishes to draw HRA, he/she is required to submit a certificate, in the prescribed format, to his institution.

Medical Assistance
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the scholars may avail the medical facilities available in their Institutions concerned.

Leave
(i) Earned Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to public holidays may be taken by a scholar. However, they are not entitled to any other vacation, such as summer, winter, and pooja vacations, etc.

(ii) Maternity/paternity leave as per the Govt. of India norms issued from time to time shall be available for scholars at full rates of the fellowship once during the tenure of the fellowship. 

(iii) An ‘Intermittent Break’ for a maximum total period of 1 year shall be permissible to the women scholars. The break can be availed a maximum of 3 times during the entire period of the fellowship. However, the total duration of the break shall not exceed one year. No fellowship shall be available for the period of such break(s). This period of intermittent breaks shall not be counted towards the tenure of the fellowship, and thus effectively the total period of fellowship shall remain the same.

(iv) ‘Academic leave’ shall be permissible only for one year throughout the tenure for any kind of academic/teaching assignment/foreign visit in connection with research work. However, during the period of academic leave no fellowship, contingency, etc will be paid by the UGC. The period of academic leave will be counted towards the tenure. Expenditure on foreign visits in connection to research work cannot be claimed from UGC. 

(v) All kinds of leave shall be availed by the scholar only with due approval of the institution concerned.
Eligibility
(A) Eligibility Criteria for Candidate

a. Only the unemployed candidates who have been awarded the Ph.D. degree in the relevant subject/discipline of Sciences, Engineering and Technology, Humanities, and Social Sciences including languages are eligible to apply. (Provisional Certificate may be accepted in case the degree is not awarded). Persons already in regular service are not eligible to apply.

b. Candidates should be below 35 years of age (as of the date/last date of application). There shall be age relaxation for SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy Layer)/Women/PWD (Persons with Disabilities) and Transgender for 5 years.

c. If the selected candidate is availing of any other fellowship/remuneration, he/she will have to resign from the same before accepting the UGC Post-Doctoral Fellowship.

d. Those candidates who have already availed of any kind of Post-Doctoral Fellowship from UGC need not apply under the scheme.

e. General category candidates having a minimum of 55% of marks or equivalent percentage converted from CGPA score at the Postgraduate level are eligible to apply. A relaxation of 5% of marks is allowed for reserved categories (SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy Layer)/ PWD (Persons with Disabilities) and Transgender).

f. It is necessary that the candidate identifies a Mentor/Supervisor (affiliated with University/Institute wherein Post-Doctoral Fellowship is tenable) for his/her post-doctoral research work and obtain his/her consent for the mentorship. Candidates applying for PDF must upload the No Objection Certificate from the proposed research center duly signed by the Mentor/Supervisor, HOD, and Registrar/Director of the University/Institute in the online application. (Please check the eligibility of the proposed research place at point (C) below.

(B) Eligibility of Mentor/ Supervisor

a. The mentor should be the regular faculty at the level of Associate Professor or above at University/Institution.
b. The mentor must have been awarded the Ph.D. degree.
c. The mentor should have supervised at least 3 Ph.D. theses.

(C) Eligibility of Proposed Research Center

The fellowship under these schemes will be available for pursuing research work in the following types of institutions only:
1. Universities (including constituent and affiliated institutions) included under section 2(f) of UGC Act, 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC. 
2. Deemed to be Universities under section 3 of the UGC Act 1956 and having valid accreditation from NAAC.
3. Institutions fully funded by Central or State Governments and empowered to award Degrees.
4. Institutions of National Importance.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once a year through advertisements in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded to the UGC website i.e. www.ugc.ac.in

Step 1: Read the Guidelines 
This is the home page of the website: https://frg.ugc.ac.in/
● 5 schemes are displayed on the Homepage.
● Under each scheme, UGC guidelines are available. Before applying, kindly read the guidelines carefully and ensure your eligibility.


Step 2: Registration
● On the homepage, for registration, click on “New User” for the scheme you need to apply.
● Here, you need to fill in all the details for registration and provide an email address that will be used for all future correspondence.
● Please keep ready a scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB, format: jpg), before registration.
● The details provided at the registration stage will not be modified, after submission. It will be reflected in the Profile.
● Click on the ‘Submit’ button, after filling in all details. 

Step 3: Login
● After registration, you will receive an email from ugchelp@mail.inflibnet.ac.in with the Scheme Login Credentials to fill out the application form.
● You need to fill in the received login credentials
● Please change the password while logging in for the first time. Remember the new password, thereafter.

Step 4: Dashboard
● The details provided by you during Registration are now available in Profile.
● Various icons displayed here will be shown in red color before complete details are entered. Once all details are filled in and submitted, the color of the icons will change to green.
● Here, you need to click on the “Eligibility Criteria” button.

Step 5: Eligibility alert
● Read all the criteria and click on the check box next to UGC guidelines. 

Step 6: Eligibility 
● Please provide all the required details here.
● Kindly note that, once submitted, the eligibility form will not be modified.
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Step 7: Data Capturing Format 
After that, you click on the “Apply Now” box (see on rectangle)
Here, Data Capturing Dashboard will display where you need to fill in PG and Ph.D. details
Click on the PG Educational Qualification box

Step 8: PG details
● Provide PG details
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 9: Ph.D. Details
● Provide Ph.D.-related details and upload the required documents 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 10: Declaration
● Please read the declaration carefully.
● If you agree with the declaration, click on the check box next to “I Agree with above” 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Please save your application for future use.

Note: No hard copies of the application form will be accepted or entertained at any point of time
Documents Required
Scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1 MB, format: jpg).
Complete Research proposal (size upto 5 MB) and an abstract (size upto 1 MB)
After filling out the application form, an auto-generated form will be displayed on your screen. Please take the print out of the same, get it signed by the HoD/Registrar, and upload the same before the submission of the application form.
