Mahila Kamgar Kaushal Unnayan Evan Theka Shramik, Hamaal Tatha Ghareloo Mahila Kamgaar Parivar Sashaktikaran Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentLearningTrainingWomen
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Mahila Kamgar Kaushal Unnayan Evan Theka Shramik, Hamaal Tatha Ghareloo Mahila Kamgaar Parivar Sashaktikaran Yojana" for unorganized worker on 11 March  2015. The main objective of the scheme to provide skill development training and family empowerment to women workers, contract workers, porters, and domestic workers.

Benefits
The scheme provides the following benefits:
Skill development training in below identified trades 
Beautician (Beautician)
Nutritionist (Nutrition)
Dietitian
Cooking
Hospitality
House Hold (Making Badi, Papad, Pickle Etc.)
Nursing
Tailoring
Financial assistance for training
Family empowerment activities such as health education, financial literacy, and entrepreneurship training
Eligibility
Female domestic workers, Contract workers and Hamal to be registered with the Board.
Benefits from this scheme are not available to individuals who are already receiving benefits from another comparable scheme offered by the State Government.
The age limit for the scheme should be above 18.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.

Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Labor registration Card.
Educational Qualification of the Applicant.
Applicant's occupation details.
