Padho Pardesh
Ministry Of Minority Affairs
Education LoanHigher EducationMinority StudentsSubsidy
Details
The Padho Pardesh scheme is a central government program that provides interest subsidies to minority students who are pursuing master's, M.Phil, or Ph.D. degrees abroad. The objective of the scheme is to award interest subsidy to meritorious students belonging to economically weaker sections of notified minority communities so as to provide them better opportunities for higher education abroad and enhance their employability.

The subjects/ disciplines in which courses  (for Masters, M.Phil and Ph.D only) may be undertaken for the grant of interest subsidy are listed below:-
Arts/ Humanities/ Social Sciences
Commerce
Pure Sciences
Engineering
Bio- technology/ Genetic Engineering
Industrial Environmental Engineering
Nano- technology
Marine Engineering
Petro-chemical Engineering
Plastic Technology
 Cryogenic Engineering
Mechatronics
Automation Robotics including artificial intelligence
Laser Technology
Low Temperature Thermal Dynamics
Optometry
Art Restoration Technology
Dock and Harbour Engineering
Imaging System Technology
Composite Materials Engineering including Decentralized power Distribution (for Solar Heat) system, Energy Storage Engineering, Energy conservation, Energy Efficient Habitat
Packaging Engineering/ Technology
Nuclear Engineering
Information Technology including Computer Engineering, Software, Software Quality assurance, Networking/ Connectivity Engineering, Communication system under Hazardous or Post-disaster conditions, Multi- media Communication
Industrial Safety Engineering
Agriculture & Agro Technology
Agronomy
Medical
Floriculture & Landscaping
Food Sciences & Technology
Forestry & Natural Resources
Horticulture
Plant Pathology
Energy Studies
Farm Power & Machinery
Veterinary Sciences
Soils & Water Management
Plant Breeding & Genetics
Small- scale Rural Technology
Ocean & Atmospheric Sciences
M.B.A
M.C.A

Benefits
Financial assistance: The scheme provides an interest subsidy on education loans, which can help to reduce the cost of overseas education for minority students.
Increased access to education: The scheme makes overseas education more accessible to minority students from all backgrounds, regardless of their financial situation.
Improved employability: Studying abroad can give students a competitive edge in the job market, and the Padho Pardesh scheme can help minority students to achieve their career goals.
Personal and professional development: Studying abroad can be a transformative experience, and the Padho Pardesh scheme can help minority students to develop their skills and knowledge in a global context.
Eligibility
Students must have been admitted to an approved master's, M.Phil, or Ph.D. program abroad.
Students must have been admitted to a recognized university or institution abroad.
Student's family income must not exceed ₹ 6,00,000 per annum.
Students must have obtained an education loan from a scheduled bank under the Indian Banks Association (IBA) Education Loan Scheme.
Students must apply for the scheme's benefits during their first year of study. Applications received in the second year or later will not be accepted.
Priority will be given to applications from states and union territories with lower bank interest rates.
Payment of financial benefits may be linked to the student's Aadhaar number.
Application Process
Online
Open the official website. 
Click on the "Apply Now" option.
Fill the required details
ISD Code, 
Mobile number
Email ID. 
Submit the details.
Documents Required
Application form.
Admission letter.
Passport.
Income certificate.
Education loan application.
Aadhaar card.
