Subsidy for the Purchase of Wooden/Fiber Reinforced Plastic/Steel Mechanised Boats
Puducherry
BoatFinancial AssistanceFisheriesFishermanSubsidy
Details
The scheme "Subsidy for the Purchase of Wooden/Fiber Reinforced Plastic/Steel Mechanised Boats" is a Sub-Component under the Umbrella Scheme "Financial Assistance for Availing Subsidy Components for the Development of Marine Fisheries" by the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Government of Puducherry. The scheme is introduced with the objective of increasing marine fish production by extending subsidies for the procurement of wooden/fiber-reinforced plastic/steel mechanized boats.

Benefits
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹7,50,000 for a mechanized boat of overall length above 47 feet with nets linked with bank finance for the purchase of a new fishing vessel.
50% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹11,00,000 for a steel mechanized boat of overall length 45 to 54 feet with nets, linked with bank finance for the purchase of a new fishing vessel.
50% subsidy to a maximum of ₹2,50,000 per boat for conversion/modernization of an existing mechanized fishing boat (unit cost ₹5,00,000).
50% subsidy to a maximum of ₹5,00,000 for the modernization of an existing mechanized fishing boat with a size of 43 feet and above for tuna long lining (unit cost ₹10,00,000).
*The rate of subsidy may be fixed by the Government from time to time.
Eligibility
The applicant should either belong to the fishermen community or be one of those professionally engaged in fishing/fish trade occupation on a full-time basis/prospective entrepreneurs.
The applicant must have resided in the Union territory of Puducherry for a continuous period of not less than five years at the time of applying for extending subsidies/ grants. 
The applicant must have been enrolled as a member of the Fishermen Co-operative Society and be above the age of 23 years and below 60 years.
The applicant must not have been a recipient of Old Age Pension, issued by the department. 
The applicant should not be employed in Government/ Government Undertakings/Fishermen Co-operative Society. 
The applicant must not have any dues to be paid to the Department/Fishermen Co-operative Societies at the time of making the application. 
In the case of male applicants, they should possess sea fishing experience in any mechanized boat for a minimum period of 5 years.
In the case of women applicants, they should possess sufficient fishing trade experience. 
In the case of entrepreneurs, they should possess fishing trade experience.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare.
Step 1: The interested applicant should request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Election Photo Identity Card (for Proof of Identity).
Ration Card (for Proof of Address).
Birth Certificate (for Proof of Age).
Membership Certificate from the President/Administrator of Fishermen/Fisherwoman Co-operative Society (in the case of fishermen).
Document attesting full-time engagement in fishing or fish trade occupation (in the case of Fish Traders).
Residence Certificate indicating a continuous period of not less than five years in the Union territory of Puducherry (from Deputy Tahsildar of the Area of Residence).
Enrollment certificate as a member of the Fishermen Co-operative Society.
Declaration of not being a recipient of Old Age Pension.
Declaration of not being employed in Government/Government Undertakings/Fishermen Co-operative Society.
Declaration certifying that the applicant has no outstanding dues to the Department/Fishermen Co-operative Societies at the time of application.
Proof of Sea Fishing Experience (Minimum 5 Years) (for male applicants).
Proof of Sufficient Fishing Trade Experience issued by the Village Panchayat (for female applicants).
Fishing Trade Experience Certificate issued by the Competent Authority (for entrepreneurs).
Loan Sanction Orders/Acceptance for Loan Sanction from the Bank/National Co-operative Development Corporation.
