Grant of Marriage Allowance to the Widow's Daughter
Puducherry
AllowanceGrantMarriageSocial WelfareWidow
Details
The scheme “Grant of Marriage Allowance to the Widow's Daughter (GMAWD)” is a financial assistance scheme by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Puducherry. This scheme aims to provide financial support to widows for the marriage of their daughters. Eligible widows can receive ₹25,000/- to cover marriage expenses. The scheme is implemented through Puducherry's Department of Women and Child Development.

Benefits
Financial assistance of ₹25,000/- for marriage expenses.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a widow with an annual income not exceeding ₹75,000/-.
2. The widow should be a citizen of India and a native of the Union territory of Puducherry by birth or continuous residence of 5 years or more.
3. The allowance is applicable only for the first marriage of the bride.
4. The marriage must be performed in accordance with the law.
5. The allowance is granted for the marriage of one daughter only.
6. The age of the bride should be above 18, and the bridegroom's age should be above 21.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
Marriage Invitation.
Birth Certificate / TC of Bride.
Birth Certificate / TC of Bridegroom.
Death Certificate of the Bride's Father.
Marriage Registration Certificate (Within 60 Days After Marriage).
Aadhaar Card of the Widow and Her Daughter (Bride).
Caste Certificate.
Ration Card.
Recent Passport-size Photograph of the Applicant.
Voter Card of Bride.
Voter ID Card of the Applicant.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Number; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
