Marriage Grant Scheme
Uttar Pradesh
Financial AssistanceGirl MarriageWomen Welfare
Details
The objective of the scheme is to provide grants for the marriage of the daughters of poor’s families of Other Backward Classes so that the economic condition of that family may improve.  Regular efforts to uplift the level of poor families are being made by the Department of Backward Classes Welfare.  There is a provision to provide marriage grants for the daughters of helpless, poor, and BPL families of Other Backward Classes. 

Benefits
The assistance of Rs. 20,000/- is provided per marriage.
Eligibility
To the daughters of poor individuals of other backward classes (excluding minorities in backward classes).
The annual income of the applicant in urban areas should not exceed Rs. 56,460/- and in rural areas Rs. 46,080/-.
The age of the girl and boy must be 18 years and 21 years or more respectively.
Applicants of other backward classes will have to enter the serial number of the online Caste Certificate issued by the Tehsil in their online application form. 
Priority will be provided to the destitute woman after the death of the husband or widow applicant and they will not be needing a caste certificate.
Marriage grants will be allowed up to a maximum of 02 daughters from a family.
Application Process
Online
Applicants must have to apply through Jan Suvidha Kendras, District Backward Classes Welfare Officer or on the official website of the department.
The applicant will compulsorily have to apply online prior to 90 days of the date of marriage or till post 90 days of marriage conducted.
Applicants will keep the hard copy of the online application along with all the self-attested uploaded documents like Aadhar Card, Income Certificate, Caste Certificate, Certificate showing the date fixed for marriage (Marriage Invitation card), documentary proof in case of widow/PwD certificate and documents related with a bank account in the form of print out.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card. 
Income Certificate. 
Caste Certificate. 
Certificate showing the date fixed for marriage (Marriage Invitation card). 
Documentary proof in case of widow/PwD certificate. 
Documents related to the bank account.
