E-YUVA Scheme: E-YUVA Centers
Ministry Of Science And Technology
Bio-incubatorCentersE-YUVAEquipmentInfrastructureInstitutionUniversity
Details
“Empowering Youth for Undertaking Value Added Innovative Translational Research (E-YUVA)” scheme was started by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) to promote a culture of applied research and need-oriented (societal or industry) entrepreneurial innovation among young students and researchers. The scheme provides funding support (through fellowship and research grant), technical and business mentoring, exposure to bio incubation model, orientation to an entrepreneurial culture, etc. to students at various levels including undergraduates, post-graduates, and post-doctoral.
E-YUVA Centers (EYCs):
The BIRAC’s E-YUVA scheme is implemented through dedicated hubs called “E-YUVA Centers (EYCs)” housed within the University/Institute set up and mentored by a BIRAC BioNEST-supported bio-incubator. EYCs act as anchors and extend requisite support and mentoring to students. Each EYC has a BIRAC-supported pre-incubation space which offers infrastructure and equipment for basic research and experimentation by selected students. Advanced research needs are fulfilled through Bio-incubator Connect. 
BIRAC-supported EYCs encompass the following:
Pre-incubation space (3,000 sq. ft. or more)
Manage Fellowships for students
Conduct Entrepreneurial Awareness Workshops for students
Roles and Responsibilities of EYCs:
View and process online applications received for fellowship
Screen applications for eligibility and suitability for the scheme
Carry out online Technical Review of eligible applications through Subject Experts (Reviewers)
Shortlist proposals for interview(F2F/skype/telephonic) by an Expert Panel
Communicate decision to applicants at each step of selection
Seek BIRAC approval on the final selection of fellows or their eligibility
Issue fellowship award letters to the selected candidates on behalf of BIRAC
Release fellowship and research grant received from BIRAC
Provide mentorship, handholding, and access to facilities at EYC and EYC Knowledge Partner for BIRAC’s Innovation and E-YUVA Fellows
Monitor the targeted milestones
Organize periodic review meetings
Provide mentorship and handholding for domain expertise, entrepreneurship, and activities including but not limited to IP management, mobilizing resources, and other business development-related activities
Provide platforms/opportunities for interaction with experts.
Provide periodic updates and reports on the progress of Fellows to BIRAC
Conduct entrepreneurial workshops
Any other activity required for effective implementation of fellowships on mutual consent with BIRAC.
Tenure of EY Centres:
EYCs will be engaged for an initial duration of 3 years, extendable further based on performance review. The performance of the EYCs would be evaluated annually.
E-Yuva Knowledge Partner:
For the mentoring of Innovation Fellows and for providing overall guidance to EYCs, BIRAC will assign engagement with BioNEST-supported Bio-incubators. Each EYC will be formally associated with a BioNEST-supported bio incubator, which shall provide necessary handholding and mentoring to EYCs and Innovation Fellows. The knowledge partner will engage with the fellows throughout the award period and provide overall guidance. Bio-incubators will act as brand ambassadors for the program and will help in its outreach.

Benefits
Financial Support to each EYC:
A. Non-recurring Head (Creating pre-incubation space):

Year 1 (INR in Lakhs) Year 2 (INR in Lakhs) Year 3 (INR in Lakhs) Total (INR in Lakhs)
Refurbishing Cost 10 0 0 10
Equipment Cost 30 0 0 30
Sub Total (A) 40 0 0 40
B. Recurring Head:

Year 1 (INR in Lakhs) Year 2 (INR in Lakhs) Year 3 (INR in Lakhs) Total (INR in Lakhs)
4 Workshops @1 lakh each 4 4 4 12
Manpower for EYC (@5% increase/year) Coordinator – 1 @₹75,000/-, Project assistant – 1 @₹25,000/- and Office assistant – 1 @₹15,000/- 13.80 14.49 15.21 43.50
Travel for EYC staff 1 1 1 3
Outreach, publications etc. 1 1 1 3
Honorarium for conducting review meetings 1 1 1 3
Contingency 1 1 1 3
Sub Total (B) 21.80 22.49 23.21 67.50
Total Support (A+B) 61.80 22.49 23.21 107.50
Eligibility
University/Institution established as a legal entity under the relevant Law of India having at least 51% Indian stakeholders (owners/partners/trustees/members/associates etc.) from Tier II/III cities is eligible to apply.
The University/Institution could be Public (Central/State)/Private owned.
Other mandatory conditions are as follows: 
Applicant University/Institution should have a Department in the Life Sciences stream (Biotechnology/ Biosciences/ Agriculture /Horticulture/ Food technology etc.) for technical support.
Age of the applicant University/Institution should be at least 3 years or more.
Presence of an Innovation supporting formal body, such as E-Cell/ Institutional Innovation Councils/ IP Cells/ TTOs / Incubation centres, etc. is a must.
Offer dedicated space of approx. 3,000 sq. ft. & relevant infrastructure ready for use.
The applicant organization should have:
Connect with a Bio-incubator.
Network of experts who can provide technical/business mentorship to fellows.
Note: The Head of the University/ Institution shall appoint/nominate the Project Lead as a contact point for BIRAC EYC until a dedicated staff is appointed for the same.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: Applications for EYCs need to be routed through the Head of the University/Institution.
Step 02: The applicant University/Institution allows only online submission of proposals.
Step 03: For proposal submission, the applicant University/Institution can register & apply on the BIRAC website “www.birac.nic.in”.
Criteria for selection of BIRAC’s E-Yuva Centers:
The BIRAC EYC Committee will be responsible for the selection of the new centers taking following criteria into consideration:
Allocation of dedicated space & relevant infrastructure ready for use.
Past experience of conducting innovation-promoting/entrepreneurial programs desirable
Number of Startups formed by the students (in biotech or any other area)
Number of Patents filed from the University/ Institution
No. of Industry projects handled or Industry connects
Funds received or raised for supporting Innovations
Accessibility to experts/mentors
Willingness & commitment from the Head of the University/Institution to support the program
Availability of IP, regulatory, and business support to the EYC fellows. The Institute should be willing to support EYC fellows to facilitate networking through individuals/groups.
Connects with bio incubators and other organizations actively promoting Entrepreneurship
Note: BIRAC encourages applications from Tier II/III cities for EYCs.
Selection Process:
The EYC Committee will be responsible for the evaluation and selection process.
After the eligibility check, the proposals received will be evaluated by the EYC Expert Committee on various parameters mentioned in the previous section.
The shortlisted proposals will be called for presentation at BIRAC.
On the basis of the presentation, the Committee will recommend the proposals for a site visit or direct consideration.
After the site visit (if recommended) the recommendations of the site visit committee would be presented to the EYC committee chair for final decision on funding.
Once recommended for support, GLA signing will be done with the applicant after financial due diligence.
Documents Required
1. Registration/Recognition certificate of the University/Institution
2. Other relevant document
