Financial Assistance for Construction/ Purchase of Wooden/ FRP Fishing Vessel (Canoe) for Fishermen
Goa
Financial AssistanceFisheriesFishermanMarineSubsidy
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Construction/ Purchase of Wooden/ FRP Fishing Vessel (Canoe) for Fishermen” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, 50% of the actual cost of the Wooden/ Fiber-Reinforced Plastic (FRP) Fishing Vessel (Canoe) purchased by the fishermen is covered by the Government of Goa. The applicant will be entitled to a subsidy grant once every four years on one craft per family household.

Benefits
For General Category, 50% subsidy, limited to ₹ 60,000/-
For SC/ST Category, 50% subsidy, limited to ₹ 80,000/-
The applicant will be entitled to a subsidy grant once every four years on one craft per family household.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a traditional fisherman by birth or profession.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa.
The applicant or any member of his household should not be a defaulter with the Directorate of Fisheries, Goa.
The canoe purchased through the scheme should be duly registered with the Directorate of Fisheries under the Marine Fishing Regulation Act (MFR) Act 1980/ Merchant Shipping (MS) Act.
The applicant shall not sell, lease, mortgage, or transfer the wooden/ FRP craft for 5 years from the date of purchase of the said wooden/FRP craft.
The wooden/FRP craft purchased should have been operated exclusively for fishing purposes only.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
Certificate of Vessel Registration, issued by the Directorate of Fisheries, Government of Goa, under the Merchant Shipping Act 1958.
Fishing Vessel License Certificate
Fishing Net License Certificate.
Copy of Fishing Netbook (Updated)
Original GST Bill from the Authorized Dealer towards the Construction of the Wooden / FRP Craft.
Caste Certificate (ST/ SC) if applicable.
Copy of Aadhar Card 
Copy of Election Card 
Copy of Bank Passbook/Statement (Aadhaar linked)
Bank letter (if bank financed)
Inspection Report along with photographs of Fishing Canoe, Net, and its Accessories by Fisheries Superintendent/ Fisheries Officer, Assistant Superintendent of Fisheries (As per format).
