AICTE-QUALITY IMPROVEMENT (FOREIGN UNIVERSITY) PROGRAMME
Ministry of Education
Doctoral DegreeFinancial AssistanceScholarship
Details
The All India Council for Technical Education in its 55th Meeting of the Council held on 14th August 2018 approved the Quality Improvement Programme (Foreign University) (QIP-FU). The QIP(FU) is an extension of the QIP program launched by the Government of India in the year 1970.
Under QIP (FU), the AICTE shall provide scholarships to the faculty who fulfils eligibility criteria and obtains admission in the Doctoral Degree programme leading to award of PhD degree in any of the enlisted top 500 universities/institutes (based on the QS ranking, the Times ranking and the Shanghai ranking) in the world.
Objectives:
The objectives of QIP(FU) programme are as follows:
To open an opera of avenues for faculty pursuing Doctoral programme leading to award of Ph.D degree from a foreign university / institution,
To fill the large gap among the faculty having PG degrees in AICTE approved institutes to obtain Ph.D degree,
To reduce local competition,
To make the Indian faculty as competitive as that of International faculty and known globally,
Besides strengthening of present research scenario in the Country, the horizons may be expanded to other developed countries – 
who have highly qualified faculty who can help or guide PhD scholars, 
More number of funding agencies,
Universities have best of facilities like laboratories, libraries, publications etc. for conduct of research work, 
Opportunities for employment are more and beyond teaching.

Benefits
Scholarship of ₹ 25,000/- per month.
Eligibility
A full time regular/permanent faculty members of AICTE recognized Degree Level Colleges.
The candidate should possess three years teaching experience at graduate level.  
Should have a Master’s degree in the appropriate branch.
Should have an admission offer in Ph.D programme from the Foreign University of Listed ranking system in previous five years. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The faculty who fulfils the eligibility criteria as laid down in the Scheme document, shall apply directly for admission in the Doctoral degree programme in any of the top 500 foreign universities / institutions ranked by the QS ranking, THE ranking and Shanghai ranking.
Step 02: Having obtained admission in the particular University / college etc., the applicant faculty must also seek to obtain Visa, travel grant if any, fellowships/assistantship / scholarship and/ or any other grants etc.
Step 03: Candidates need to fill the application form along with other required documents and submit to AICTE to the below address:

All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE)
Nelson Mandela Marg,
Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110070
Phone: 011-26131576-78,80
Documents Required
Application form duly filled along with photograph.
Documents issued by the foreign university conveying admission and the duration with start and end dates.
Copy of passport and valid visa, with date of onward journey.
Attested copy of the Mandate Form duly filled and signed by the Head of the College / Institute.
Copy of the 'Undertaking' furnished to parent Institute in India.
Date for onward journey.
Authentication / Recommendations of the Parent Institute that the applicant faculty fulfils the eligibility criteria and his / her relieving.
