KSCSTE Emeritus Scientist Scheme
Kerala
EmeritusFellowshipResearchScientistSuperannuated
Details
The scheme “KSCSTE Emeritus Scientist Scheme” helps to provide an opportunity for superannuated outstanding scientists to pursue research in their respective fields of specialization and to harness their knowledge and erudition for the development of the State. Scientists/Academicians from Kerala State in the field of Science/Engineering who have retired from service or completed their assignments from reputed institutions with research publications in reputed journals are eligible to apply. Selection through review/evaluation by an expert committee.
Objectives of the scheme:
Tap knowledge and provide support to superannuated outstanding scientists to pursue research in their respective fields of specialization.
To utilize their talent and use their experience in addressing state-level important issues.

Benefits
Selected candidates are eligible for:
1. Monthly fellowship of ₹31,000/- for a maximum period of 3 years.
2. An annual Contingent grant of ₹1,00,000/- eligible for the entire project duration.
3. Technical Assistance in the form of a Project Fellow can be appointed to support research activity.
4. Fellowship will be given for a period not exceeding three years, (Maximum duration of the project - 3 Years).
Eligibility
Applicant should be a Permanent Resident of Kerala.
Candidates should be retired scientists/academicians in Kerala by birth or domicile and should have worked as a scientist/academician in reputed institutions with commendable scientific achievements.
Candidate should apply within 5 years of superannuation.
The candidate should have published a minimum of 3 peer-reviewed research papers with SCI-indexed journals with an impact factor greater than 2.0 or should have filed at least one patent in the last 3 years of application.
Those who have availed Emeritus Scientist Fellowship earlier (from KSCSTE or elsewhere) are not eligible to apply.
The Research Centre selected for the proposed work should be the R&D Centres of KSCSTE.
Application Process
Online
Eligible applicants may apply online in the KSCSTE Web Portal for New applications at the following link: https://submit.kscste.kerala.gov.in/
Scrutiny of the Application:
Preliminary scrutiny of the application is carried out for verification of basic eligibility conditions and supporting documents.
Peer review:
All eligible applications are subjected to peer review by five subject experts (3 within & 2 outside the state) in the relevant area of research. Proposals with at least three reviews graded greater than 5 (on 10 point scale) are only considered for further processing.
Presentation before Expert Committee:
Proposals that have passed the peer review requirements will be invited for presentation before the Programme Advisory Committee. One or two reviewers will serve as additional Subject Expert during the PAC meeting. On favorable recommendation by the PAC, the proposal will be considered for funding by KSCSTE. The applicants will be informed of the decision and will be asked to execute an Agreement as per the guidelines of the scheme.
Contact Details:
Scientist-in-charge (KSCSTE-ESS), Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment,
Sasthra Bhavan, Pattom, Thiruvananthapuram – 695004,
Tel: +91 471 2548402, E-mail : jaya.kscste@kerala.gov.in, sasthrabodhini2011@gmail.com
For queries:
E-mail : jaya.kscste@kerala.gov.in, sasthrabodhini2011@gmail.com
Tel: 0471-2548402
Documents Required
1. Identity proof of applicant
2. Photo of applicant
3. Proof of permanent residency in Kerala
4. Certificate of Ph.D
5. Reprints of Research Publications in the last 3 years of application (Full-length paper)
6. Biodata of Applicant (include List of publications)
7. Proof of Superannuation duly endorsed by the head of the institution
8. Consent letter from the head of the host institution
9. Declaration by the candidate 
10. Endorsement from the Head of Institution
