Vikaas-Day Care Scheme For Person with Disability Children
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
ChildCounsellingPerson With DisabilitySpecial Care
Details
Vikaas is a Day care scheme, launched by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities , Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment. Govt. of India, primarily to expand the range of opportunities available to a person with disability attaining the age of 10 years for enhancing interpersonal and vocational skills as they are on a transition to higher age groups.Registered Organisation(RO) centre will also offer caregiving support to Person with Disability(PwD) during the time the PwD is in the Vikaas centre. In addition it also helps in supporting family members of the PwDs with disabilities covered under the National Trust Act to get some time during the day to fulfil other responsibilities.

Benefits
Day Care: RO should provide day-care facilities to PwDs for at least 6 hours in a day(between 8 am to 6 pm) along with age specific activities.
Staffing: Interpersonal and vocational skills would be provided for the betterment of the children.
Counselling: Counselling and guidance especially for Activities for Daily Living (ADL)must be provided to parents or guardians of PwDs. RO should provide assistance to PwDs for further training, education and employment.
Transport Facilities (OPTIONAL): RO can also provide transportation facilities to PwDs in case it so desires. The National Trust will provide additional transport allowance to RO only for PwDs who are availing transport facilities provided by RO.
Eligibility
Beneficiary should be of the age of 10 years or more
Beneficiary should have one of the disabilities under the  National Trust Act, 1999, which are Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilitities.
Beneficiary should not be simultaneously enrolled under Samarth or Gharaunda scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Beneficiary provides necessary proofs at the Vikaas Centre.
Individual Assessment Test conducted for children aged 10-14.
Fit for school: Parents guided on school options or National Trust schemes.
Interested in Vikaas Centre: Proceed to Step 4.
All applicant ( Including below 14 and above 14 years of age) interested in Vikas centers 
Check eligibility for LIG or BPL funding if enrolling in Vikaas Centre.
Submit Enrolment Form with required documents for verification.
Upon successful verification, PwD enrolled with ID card and starter kit. Details about the centre provided by Vikaas representatives.
Inform beneficiary about Niramaya health insurance scheme, assist with registration if interested
Documents Required
Parents or guardian are required to bring the Enrolment Form along with the originals and photocopies of the below mentioned documents:
Enrolment form
Birth certificate or Date of Birth proof of the PwD
Disability certificate
BPL certificate or Income certificate of Parents or Guardian issued by competent authority as authorized by the concerned State/ Union Territory (for LIG or BPL family)
ID proof of parent or guardian
Residence (Local) proof (Mandatory in case of LIG parent or guardian for parents of PwD availing transport facility)
Declaration proof of the guardianship if PwD < or18 years of age and parents are not the guardians (OR),
LG certificate, if PwD > 18 years of age and parents are not the guardians.
