AICTE - Distinguished Chair Professor Fellowship
Ministry of Education
Fellowship
Details
A Fellowship Scheme by the All India Council for Technical Education, Ministry of Education. The Distinguished Chair Professor Fellowship intends to utilize the expertise of highly qualified and experienced superannuated professionals who have made unparalleled, exceptional professional contributions to society in their respective fields/disciplines for motivating and inspiring students/faculty of AICTE-approved institutes. The fellowship is tenable for a period of three years or the age of 75 years whichever is earlier, extendable till 80 years of age subject to fitness. The Fellowship consists of an honorarium of ₹10,000/- for full-day interaction with the Faculty/ Students of the host institute and nearby located institutions for up to a maximum of five days in a single trip.

Benefits
The Fellowship consists of -
(i) An honorarium of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten thousand per day) for full-day interaction with the Faculty/ Students of the host institute and nearby located institutions up to a maximum of five days in a single trip.
(ii) Actual expenses on travel by train / air/ car etc.
(iii) In Online Mode: An institution is allowed to host only 5 online sessions/talks with only 1 (one) DCP assigned to your institution by AICTE. A session will be a minimum of 2 hours followed by 1 hour of interaction.
Eligibility
The awardee must be a highly qualified superannuated Professional in his / her field.
The awardee should be an acknowledged leader (expert) in that particular field of specialization having actively engaged in research and development.
The awardee should have contributed to the development of society through his / her excellent fieldwork.
Application Process
Offline
The proposals for the Distinguished Chair Professor fellowship will be by nomination only. The nominations with all necessary details can be sent throughout the year to the following address:
The Director (Faculty Development Cell)
AICTE, Nelson Mandela Marg,
Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110070
Director.fdc@aicte-india.org
Documents Required
Letter of Acceptance
3-5 day schedule to Deliver lectures throughout the year 
Bank account details including IFSC code.

[Note: Only on receipt of the above documents, will the Council initiate further action.]
