Aapki Beti Hamari Beti
Haryana
BetiFinancial AssistanceGirl ChildGrantInvestmentLIC
Details
The scheme “Aapki Beti Hamari Beti” was launched by the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Haryana on 24th August 2015. Under the scheme, the State Government will invest a sum of ₹21000/- with Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) in the name of the 1st Girl child of SC/BPL families, and the 2nd child of a family belonging to any other caste. On attaining 18 years of age, the girl child will be paid the amount. This scheme was launched by the state government with the aim that every girl child has a right to be born and have access to education to develop her potential. The scheme guidelines shall come into force w.e.f. 22nd January 2015.
Objectives:
To bring about change in the societal attitude towards the birth of the girl child.
To improve the child-sex ratio in the state.
To improve enrolment and retention of girl children in schools and to assist the girls to undertake income-generating activities.
To raise the age of marriage of girls.
To ensure survival, and proper health and promote the education of girls in the state.
Coverage:
The scheme shall be implemented in both rural and urban areas of the state, covering 1st girl child born in families belonging to Schedule Caste, and all Below Poverty Line (BPL), and 2nd/twin/multiple girls born on or after 22nd January 2015 in any family in the State of Haryana satisfying the eligibility criteria. The LADLI scheme is merged into “Aapki Beti Hamari Beti Scheme” and 2nd /twin/multiple girls born on or before 2Ist January 2015 in any family in the State of Haryana, satisfying the eligibility criteria of the Scheme, will be paid benefits as per the rules of erstwhile LADLI Scheme.
Monitoring of the Scheme:
Monitoring of this scheme shall be done at the level of the Women and Child Development Department, Haryana, and also by 3rd Party audit, as decided by the State Government from time to time.

Benefits
Keeping in view the aims of the Scheme, the Government will provide benefits/financial assistance to each girl child beneficiary. This will be provided in the following manner:
All Scheduled Caste families whose first girl child is born on or after 22nd January 2015 shall be eligible to receive a one-time grant of ₹21,000/- only.
All Below Poverty Line (BPL) families whose first girl child is born on or after 22nd January 2015 shall be eligible to receive a one-time grant of ₹21,000/- only.
All families whose second girl child is born on or after 22nd January 2015, will receive ₹21000/- (One Time) irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, income, and number of sons.
In special cases, when twin/multiple girls are born on or after 22nd January 2015 will receive ₹21000/- (One Time) per girl child in any family of the State of Haryana satisfying the eligibility conditions.
All families whose second girl child is born on or before 21st January 2015, will receive ₹5000/- girl child per annum for five years irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, income, and number of sons. (This is applicable for those cases who were eligible for benefit under the Ladli scheme),
In special cases, when twin/multiple girls are born on or before 21st January 2015 will receive ₹2500/- per girl child per annum for five years irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, income, and number of sons in any family of the State of Haryana satisfying the eligibility conditions. (This is applicable for those cases who were eligible for benefit under the Ladli scheme).
The money is to be invested with LIC of India under the Scheme 'Aapki Beti Harnari Beti' in the name of the girl child beneficiary through her mother. In case, the mother is not alive then the money would be deposited in the name of the beneficiary girl child through the father. If both the parents are not alive then this money would be deposited in the name of the beneficiary girl child through her guardian.
Note: The money shall be released within one month of submission of the completed application of the beneficiary through her mother/father/guardian.
Withdrawal of Benefit:
The benefit sanctioned under the scheme shall be withdrawn by the competent authority at any stage if it is found that it was sanctioned incorrectly or received by providing false information/fabricated documents.
In case of wrong information, deliberately given by the applicant, he/she shall be liable for prosecution as per law.
he investment made in the shape of a membership certificate under this scheme shall not be liable for attachment under any law.
If the beneficiary dies after attaining the age of 18 years then the parents of the beneficiary will be eligible for receiving benefits.
The beneficiary would not be eligible for the benefit under the scheme in case she gets married before the age of 18 years.
Note: In case of the death of the beneficiary before 18 years of age, her enrolment as a beneficiary under the Scheme Aapki Beti Harnari Beti, would be cancelled with immediate effect, and funds invested against this enrolment would be taken back from Scheme Aapki Beti Hamari Beti with interest and deposited in the receipt Head of the Department.
Eligibility
The following will be the eligibility criteria for beneficiaries under the scheme:-
All Scheduled Caste families whose first girl child is born on or after 22nd January 2015 shall be eligible to receive a one-time grant.
All Below Poverty Line (BPL) families whose first girl child is born on or after 22nd January 2015 shall be eligible to receive a one-time grant.
All families whose second girl child is born on or after 22nd January 2015, will receive a one-time grant irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, income, and number of sons.
In cases, twin/multiple girls born on or after 22nd January 2015, will receive a one-time grant per girl child in any family satisfying the eligibility conditions.
All families whose second girl child is born on or before 21st January 2015, will receive a one-time grant per girl child per annum for five years irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, income, and number of sons. (This is applicable for those cases who are eligible for benefit under the Ladli scheme).
In cases, when twin/multiple girls are born on or before 21st January 2015 will receive a one-time grant per girl child per annum for five years irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, income, and number of sons in any family of the State of Haryana satisfying the eligibility conditions. (This is applicable for those cases who are eligible for benefit under Ladli scheme).
All parents resident of Haryana or having a Haryana domicile and at least one of the parents along with the girl child should be residing in Haryana.
The pregnant women should be registered at the nearest Anganwadi Centre or with the Health Department.
The birth of all girl children shall be registered.
The girl child shall have an Aadhaar number. However, at the time of enrolment, the Aadhaar number of the parents is also accepted.
The parents should ensure proper and timely immunization of the girl children and immunization records (as per age of the girl children) should be attached with the application form.
Beneficiaries should be enrolled in Anganwadi Centre as per their age.
Change of address: It shall be obligatory for the parents/guardian of the girl children to intimate any change of address to the Women and Child Development Project Officer/ District Programme Officer and Civil Surgeon concerned.
Eligibility to encash Membership Certificate:
In order to obtain the maturity value of the investment in the Membership Certificate at the time of applying the beneficiary girl must be:
18 years of age
Unmarried
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The application form will be available free of cost from the Anganwadi Centre or can be downloaded from the website of the Department.
Step 02: The duly filled form along with the self-attested copy of the birth certificate & immunization card of the beneficiary and the Aadhaar number of child or of the parents shall be deposited with the Anganwadi Worker/Health Staff.
Step 03: The Anganwadi worker/Health Staff shall submit the same to the Circle Supervisor/Medical Officer or to the Women and Child Development Project Officer/Civil Surgeon.
Step 04: The Women and Child Development Project Officer/Civil Surgeon will forward the cases to the District Programme Officer of the concerned district, who will sanction the amount as per the eligibility of the beneficiaries and would deposit the said amount via Aadhaar number linked with bank account of Life Insurance Corporation of India for investment in the name of the beneficiary.
Note 01: Employees of Haryana Government, but residing at Chandigarh and Delhi can apply to District Programme Officer Panchkula and District Programme Officer Gurgaon respectively.
Note 02: Life Insurance Corporation of India shall issue a Membership Certificate in favour of each beneficiary enrolled with them. The said membership certificate shall be given to the concerned District Programme Officer for onward delivery to the parents/guardian of the concerned beneficiary.
Note 03: The eligible girl along with her mother, father and guardian will apply on the prescribed Proforma to the District Programme Officer, Who after ascertaining the eligibility shall hand over the Membership Certificate to the beneficiary.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card- Girl(s)/Parents/Guardian
Residence proof
Caste Certificate
Self-attested copy of the birth certificate
Immunization card of the beneficiary
Passport Size photographs of the beneficiary
BPL Card (If applicable)
Bank account details
