Widow Re-marriage Scheme
Himachal Pradesh
Female SchemeFinancial AssistanceGrantRemarriageWidow
Details
The Widow Re-Marriage Scheme of Himachal Pradesh is a government scheme aimed at providing financial assistance to widows who have remarried. The primary objective of this scheme is to help in the rehabilitation of widows after remarriage. 

Widow Re-Marriage Scheme launched by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of Himachal Pradesh. The main purpose of the scheme is to help in the rehabilitation of widows, by encouraging men to enter into wedlock with widows. This scheme provides financial assistance to such widows. Under this scheme financial assistance of Rs. 25, 000 is provided out of which cash grant of Rs. 10,000 will be given to widow at the time of marriage and Rs. 15,000 will be kept in the form of Fixed Deposit jointly at least for five years. The initiative has helped many destitute widows of the state. All widow permanent residents of Himachal can apply to the scheme. More details and application form can be obtained at nearest District welfare office, the Government of Himachal Pradesh.

Benefits
Under this scheme financial assistance of Rs. 25, 000 is provided out of which cash grant of Rs. 10,000 will be given to widow at the time of marriage and Rs. 15,000 will be kept in the form of Fixed Deposit jointly at least for five years
Eligibility
1. The widow should have remarried.
2. The applicant should be a resident of Himachal Pradesh.
3. Men not less than 21 years of age
4. Women not less than 18 years of age.
Application Process
Offline
The applicant who wishes to apply must confirm eligibility and apply at District or Tahashil welfare office
Application forms can be obtained at the same office
Fill the application form carefully and submit it at same office with required documents. 
The application should be submitted within six months of their marriage
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Bank passbook copy
Identity proof
Resident proof of both men & women
Aadhaar card
Name and address of the person to whom the widow is marrying
Date of re-remarriage
Date of first marriage
The date on which she became a widow
