Hathkargha Samvardhan Sahayata
Odisha
EntrepreneurshipTechnology UpgradationWeaver
Details
Launched on 7th August 2016 (National Handloom Day), by the Hon’ble Minister of Textiles, the scheme “Hathkargha Samvardhan Sahayata” aims to meet the needs of handloom weavers for assistance on a larger scale for looms and accessories. It aims to provide financial assistance for technological up-gradation to improve the quality of the fabric and productivity. Under HSS, financial assistance to the extent of 90% of the cost of technological up-gradation items shall be borne by the Govt. of India while the remaining 10% shall be borne by the beneficiary.

Benefits
Under HSS, financial assistance to the extent of 90% of the cost of technological up-gradation items shall be borne by the Govt. of India while the remaining 10% shall be borne by the beneficiary.

Indicative List of Admissible Technology Up-gradation Items:
Pneumatic Jacquard System for a Set of 4 Handlooms; Motorized Jacquard on the Existing Handloom; Take-up & Let Off Motions on the Existing Handloom (Including Fitting Charges); Multiple Box Motion; Multiple Buti Weaving Sley; Twin Cloth Weaving Mechanism (Including Fitting Charges); Jacquard With Complete Set Including Installation; Dobby; Healds Reeds, Bobbins, Shuttles Etc. (Set); Frame Loom (Upto 60”, and Above 60”); Construction Workshed; Asu Machine (Manual); Asu Machine (Motorized); Warp Beam & Fabric Beam; Normal Warping Machine; Motorized Warping Machine; Motorized Pirn Winding Machine; Motorized Pirn- Cum Bobbin/ Dubba Winding Machine; Street Sizing Kit (Brush, Sticks, Spray Gun Etc.).

NOTE 1: The list of items is updated along with the cost norms on the recommendations of the Expert Committee.
NOTE 2: Weavers’ Service Centre (WSC) shall act as the lead agency in the purchase of technological up-gradation (looms/accessories) by the weavers from Empaneled Suppliers.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the state of Orissa.
The applicant should be a Handloom Weaver.
The applicant should have undergone training in weaving in the last 2 years under various government programmes, including Block Level Clusters.
The applicant should be willing to contribute 10% of the total cost.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The selection of beneficiaries shall be done through camps organized by the Weavers Service Centre (WSC). A list of beneficiaries shall be prepared by the WSC concerned in association with the Implementing Agency and State Directorate of Handlooms concerned. They will be informed to participate in camps through SMS etc.

Step 2: The selected weavers can place their order for the supply of particular items and pay their 10% financial contribution digitally to the supplier through RTGS/NEFT/UPI etc.

Step 3: The WSC will confirm the order and inform the supplier of the details of the weavers such as name, address, mobile number, name of the items to be supplied along with their specifications and cost, expected date of supply, etc. A copy of the supply order shall be endorsed to NHDC and the weaver concerned.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card.
Weavers’ Identity card.
Two passport-size photographs of the applicant.
