KARMASHREE- The Chief Minister's Award For Excellence In Public Administration
Assam
AwardE-GovernanceInnovative WorkOfficerPublic Administration
Details
In order to acknowledge, recognize and reward the extraordinary exemplary and innovative work done by the officers of the State Govt., a scheme, "KARMASHREE" the Chief Minister's award for excellence in public administration has been instituted.
The award will be given for Innovation in Public Administration and outstanding implementation of Govt. schemes, policies and programmes. Officers of State Governments individually or as a group will be eligible for the award. Not more than 3 (three) officers including the applicant will be allowed in a group. There would be a total of 10 (ten) awards and shall consist of a "Citation". The award will be given every year.

The CM Awards are given in the following categories:

1. e-Governance Initiatives
2. Replication of the Best Policy in the Government
3. New Initiative/ an innovative step of efficient and transparent execution of schemes/programmes of the State/Center.

There are three committees constituted for finalizing the name of the awardee:

1. Screening Committee: The screening Committee shall examine the applications and place them before the Expert Committee.
2. Expert Committee: Expert Committee will assess the initiatives based on the presentation of the initiatives and conduct a spot study (if necessary) of the initiatives shortlisted by the Screening Committee. The shortlisted initiatives would be placed before the State Level Committee.
3. State Level Committee: State Level Committee will shortlist the applications/initiative for making recommendations to the Hon'ble Chief Minister, Assam for the final selection of Awards.

Benefits
To acknowledge, recognize and reward the extraordinary exemplary, and innovative work done by the officers of the State Govt. of Assam.
There would be a total of 10 (ten) awards and shall consist of a "Citation".
The award will be given every year.
Eligibility
Selection for the award will be on the basis of the following criteria:

Innovativeness
Sustainability
Up scalability
Impact on the overall service delivery system
Improvement in efficiency and effectiveness in administration or governance
Social, economic, or other benefits from the initiative
Improved transparency and objectivity in the process
Any other criteria which may be decided by the Screening Committee and Selection Committee
Officers of State Government individually or as a group will be eligible for the award. Not more than 4 (four) officials (maximum) including the applicant will be allowed in a group.

Note 01: For the nomination of the Award for implementation of the Priority Programme, it has to be from a District/ Implementing Unit.
Note 02: For the nomination of the Award for Innovation, it has to be from a Department Organization of the State Government/ Districts.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: Application may be submitted online (http://webservers.amtron.in/karmaShree) with the recommendations of the competent authority. Deputy Commissioner will be the competent authority to recommend the applications for the officers working in the districts. For the officers working in the Directorate, Commissionerate, or Secretariat, the Director, the Commissioner, and the Sr. most Secretary of the concerned department may recommend the application for the award.

Step 02: All the columns of the application form must be duly filled as per the instructions contained therein.

Step 03: The application for an award in innovation should contain the details of beneficiaries/stakeholders of the initiatives/projects.

Step 04: Application with incomplete/insufficient details shall not be considered.

Step 05: For an award in innovation, the organization may be represented by the serving Head of the organization or an officer nominated by him/her for receiving the award.

Step 06: A legend should be provided for all abbreviations/acronyms used in the application and documentation.

Note: The following points to be remembered while applying:

1. The email address must be “authentic”.
2. You will receive an “auto-generated” email to activate your account.
3. Your email address will be the “User ID” while logging in to the system.
4. All the 4(four) sections of the application must be specified properly and correctly.
5. One must specify the “Completed Authority” correctly and properly with a valid email address.
6. The “Completed Authority” will receive an email to recommend the application from his/her end as mentioned in the guidelines.
7. There is a provision to attach Documents (PDFs, JPG images, and Video clips) against each application.
8. Go for “Final Submit” to complete the application process otherwise it will be considered as incomplete application.
Documents Required
The following documents should be attached to the form prescribed in the portal:

1. A brief write-up of 5 pages (A4 size) on the scheme. The write-up should contain details of the initiative/programme/strategies adopted in implementation/period of implementation/exceptional achievements and outcomes/ positive impact and sustainability.
2. Supporting documents such as —
a) Executive Summary
b) Field photographs (maximum 10)
c) Flow chart detailing uniqueness
d) Success story of the initiative
3. A CD of a short film of 3-5 minutes duration highlighting the initiative/innovation may also be appended.
