Dr. Ambedakar Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Post-Matric Scholarships for the Economically Backward Class (EBC) Students
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
EBCEconomically Backward ClassPost MatricScholarshipStudent
Details
"Dr. Ambedakar Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Post-Matric Scholarships for the Economically Backward Class (EBC) Students" is a Scholarship Scheme by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the Economically Backward Class (EBC) students studying at the post-matriculation or post-secondary stage to enable them to complete their education. These scholarships shall be available for studies in India only and will be awarded by the Government of State/Union Territory to which the applicant actually belongs, i.e. permanently settled.

Benefits
Maintenance Allowance

Group A
Degree and Post Graduate level courses including M.Phil., PhD and Post Doctoral research in Medicine (Allopathic, Indian and other recognized systems of medicines), Engineering, Technology, Planning, Architecture, Design, Fashion Technology, Agriculture, Veterinary and Allied Sciences, Management, Business Finance/Administration, Computer Science/Applications.
Post Graduate Diploma courses in various branches of management & medicine.
C.A./ I.C.W.A./ C.S./ I.C.F.A. etc.
M. Phil., Ph.D. and Post-Doctoral Programmes (D.Litt., D.Sc. etc.).
L.L.M
Rate of Maintenance Allowance (₹ per month): Hostellers: 750; Day Scholars: 350.

Group B
Graduate/Post/Graduate courses leading to Degree, Diploma, Certificate in areas like Pharmacy (B. Pharma), Nursing (B Nursing), LLB, BFS, other para-medial branches like rehabilitation diagnostics etc., Mass Communication, Hotel Management & Catering, Travel/Tourism/Hospitality Management, Interior Decoration, Nutrition & Dietetics, Commercial Art, Financial Services (e.g. Banking, Insurance, Taxation etc.) for which entrance qualification is minimum Sr. Secondary (10+2), except aviation related courses.
Post Graduate courses not covered under Group A e.g. MA/M.Sc./M.Com/ M.Ed./M.Pharma etc.
Rate of Maintenance Allowance (₹ per month): Hostellers: 510; Day Scholars: 335.

Group C
All other courses leading to a graduate degree not covered under Group A & B e.g. BA/B.Sc./B.Com etc.
Rate of Maintenance Allowance (₹ per month): Hostellers: 400; Day Scholars: 210.

Group D
All post-matriculation level non-degree courses for which entrance qualification is High School (Class X), e.g. senior secondary certificate (class XI and XII); both general and vocational stream, ITI courses, 3-year diploma courses in Polytechnics, etc.
Rate of Maintenance Allowance (₹ per month): Hostellers: 260; Day Scholars: 160.

NOTE: Scholars who are entitled to free boarding and/or lodging will be paid maintenance chargers at 1/3rd of the hostellers' rate.

Reader Charges for Blind Students (Blind Scholars)
The blind scholars will be given an additional amount as 'Readers Charges' as mentioned below:
Group: A & B; Reader Allowance (₹ per month): 175
Group: C; Reader Allowance (₹ per month): 130
Group: D; Reader Allowance (₹ per month): 90

Fees
Scholars will be paid enrolment/registration, tuition, games, union, library, magazine, medical examination and such other fees compulsorily payable by the scholar to the institution or University/Board. Refundable deposit-like caution money and security deposit will, however, be excluded.

Study Tours
Study tour charges upto a maximum of Rs. 900/- per annum limited to the actual expenditure incurred by the student on transportation charges etc., will be paid to the scholars studying professional and technical courses, provided that the head of the institution certifies that the study tour is essential for the scholar for completion of his/her course of study.

Thesis Typing/ Printing Charges
Thesis typing/printing charges upto a maximum of Rs. 1000 will be paid to research scholars on the recommendation of the Head of the Institution.

Mode of Disbursal
In order to ensure timely payment of scholarship amount to the beneficiaries, the State Government/UT administrations are requested to avoid cash payment of scholarship amount and are required to issue instructions to all concerned that payment of scholarship should be made directly to beneficiaries through their accounts in post offices/banks with phased transition to Smart Cards.

Duration of Awards
The award once made will be tenable from the stage at which it is given to the completion of the course subject to good conduct and regularity in attendance. 

Renewal of Awards
It will be renewed from year to year provided that within a course, which is continuous for a number of years, the scholar secures promotion to the next higher class irrespective of the fact whether such examinations are conducted by a University or the Institution.
Eligibility
The scholarships will be open to Indian nationals belonging to the General Category (Other than Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe and Other Backward Classes).
These scholarships will be given for the study of all recognized post-matriculation or post-secondary courses pursued in Government institutions.
Students pursuing Post-graduate courses in medicine will be eligible if they are not allowed to practice during the period of their course.
Students who after failing or passing the undergraduate/Post-Graduate examinations in Arts/Science/Commerce join any recognized professional or Technical certificate/diploma/degree courses will be awarded scholarships if otherwise eligible. No subsequent failure will be condoned except for courses in Group 'A' and no further change in the course will be allowed.
Students who pursue their studies through correspondence courses will be eligible towards reimbursement of a non-refundable fee. The term correspondence includes distant and continuing education. Besides reimbursement of non-refundable fees, such students will also be eligible for an annual allowance of Rs. 900/- for essential/prescribed books, as applicable.
Only two boys of the same parents/guardians will be entitled to receive scholarships. This restriction will, however, not apply to girls. Accordingly, scholarships availed by girls of the same parents/guardian will not adversely affect the admissibility of availing scholarships upto two boys of the same parents/guardian.
A scholarship holder under this Scheme will not hold any other scholarship/stipend. If awarded any other scholarship/stipend, the student can exercise his/her option for either of the two scholarships/stipends, whichever is more beneficial to him/her and should inform the awarding authority through the Head of the Institution about the option made. No scholarship will be paid to the students under this Scheme from the date he/she accepts any other scholarships/stipend. The student can, however, accept free lodging or a grant or ad-hoc monetary help from the State Government or any other source for the purchase of books, and equipment or for meeting the expenses on board and lodging, in addition to the scholarship amount paid under this Scheme.
Scholarship holders who are receiving coaching in any of the pre-examination training centres with financial assistance from the Central Government/State Government will not be eligible for a stipend under the coaching schemes for the duration of the coaching programme.
Employed students whose income combined with the income of their parents/guardians does not exceed ₹ 1,00,000 per annum shall be eligible for post-matric scholarships to the extent of reimbursement of all compulsorily payable non-refundable fees.
In the case of unemployed students whose parents/guardians income from all sources does not exceed ₹ 1,00,000 per annum will be entitled to the scholarship under the Scheme.
Application Process
Online
Step 1:   Visit the National Scholarship Portal and click “New Registration”. The guidelines for Registration will appear. Scroll to the bottom. Read carefully the undertaking. Accept the Terms. Click “Continue”.
 Step 2:  A Registration Form will appear. (The fields marked as * are compulsory). Fill in the details and click “Register”.  Your Application ID and password will be displayed. The same will also be sent as an SMS to your registered mobile number. 

Step 3:  Go to https://scholarships.gov.in/fresh/newstdRegfrmInstruction. Click on “Login to Apply”. Enter your Application ID and password. Type the Captcha and click “Login”. On the next screen, provide the OTP received on your registered mobile number. You will be directed to the Password Reset screen. Create a new password and confirm. Click “Submit”. You will be directed to the “Applicant’s Dashboard”.

 Step 4:  On the left pane, click “Application Form”. The fields marked as * are compulsory. Fill in the details and upload the documents. You can either click on “Save as Draft” to complete the application later. Else, click “Final Submit” to submit the application.
Documents Required
One copy of the application for the scholarship in the prescribed form (a separate application form may be prescribed by the concerned State Government/UT for a 'fresh' and 'renewal' scholarship).
One copy of the passport-size photograph with signatures of the student thereon (for fresh scholarship)
One attested copy of each of the certificates/diplomas/degrees etc., with respect of all examinations passed
A certificate (in original) of income issued by an authorized Revenue Officer, not below the rank of Tehsildar.
A receipt in acknowledgement of the scholarship in the previous year on the form attached to the application only duly countersigned by the Head of the Institution concerned, if the applicant was in receipt of a scholarship under this Scheme in the preceding year.
