Jagananna Chedodu
Andhra Pradesh
BarberFinancial AssistanceSocial WelfareTailorWashermen
Details
"Jagananna Chedodu" is a State-Funded Social Welfare Scheme by the B.C. Welfare Department, Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The scheme is only for tailors (All communities), Rajakas (washermen), and Nayee Brahmins (Barbers) of the state. The beneficiary will be provided a one-time amount of ₹ 10,000 per year for a period of 5 years i.e., ₹ 50,000/- in five installments. This fund can be utilized by the beneficiaries for purchasing tools, equipment, and other essentials to grow their source of income and work establishment. The Functionary Responsible for Scheme Delivery is/are Welfare & Education & Assistant / Ward Welfare & Development Secretary at Village/Ward secretariats level. At the district level, the Executive Director, of BC Corporation will coordinate with the assistance of MPDOs / Municipal Commissioner.

Benefits
The beneficiary will be provided a one-time amount of ₹ 10,000 per year for a period of 5 years i.e., ₹ 50,000/- in five installments. 
This fund can be utilized by the beneficiaries for purchasing tools, equipment, and other essentials to grow their source of income and work establishment.
Eligibility
The total family annual income should be less than or equal to ₹ 2,50,000.
The Total Family Land holding of the applicant should be wetland below 10 acres/ dry land below 25 acres/ or wetland and dry land under 25 acres.
No family member should be a government employee or Government pensioner. The families of Sanitary workers are exempted.
The students must have availed admission in the colleges/universities or institutes recognized in one of the following (regular) courses - B.Tech, B.Pharmacy, ITI, Polytechnic, B.Ed, M.Tech, M.Pharmacy, MBA, Other Degree/PG Courses. * For PG Courses only Government/University Colleges are eligible.
The students should be enrolled in one of the following institutions - Government or Government Aided; Private Colleges affiliated with State Universities / Boards; Day scholar students; Students in College Attached Hostels (CAH) and Department Attached Hostels (DAH)
The aggregate attendance of the applicant should be 75%.
No member of the family should own a four-wheeler (Taxis / Tractors/ Autos are exempted).
The family of the applicant should not own any property or should own property less than 1500 sq. ft. of built-up area (Residential or Commercial) in urban areas.
No family member should be an income tax payee.
Both Male & Female, Ages should be depending on the Eligible of prescribed courses.
Students belonging to SC, ST, BC, EBC (other than Kapu), Kapu, Minority, and Differently Abled categories are eligible.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: On Citizen Schemes Portal landing page, the citizen can log in using the Aadhaar-tagged mobile OTP Authentication. In the “Citizen Scheme Application” page, citizens can select “Jagananna Chedodu” from the schemes dropdown and click on “Submit”. 

Step 2: Applications submitted are forwarded to Welfare and Education Assistant (WEA) /Ward Welfare and Development Secretary (WWDS). 

Step 3: The Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS conducts the field verification for each application, takes eKYC, makes a relevant recommendation, and forwards it to Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) / Municipal Commissioner (MC). 

Step 4: The MPDO/MC reviews the application and makes relevant recommendations and forwards the application to the Executive Directors of the Backward Classes Welfare Department (ED BC). 

Step 5: The Executive Director of the Backward Classes Corporations (ED BCs) verifies the application and makes relevant recommendations. 

Step 6: Based on recommendations made by the ED BCs and the applicants’ eligibility as mentioned in the Scheme Eligibility Calculator, the Social Audit lists namely the Provisional eligible list and Reverification list (with reasons for ineligibility) are published in all secretariats. 

Step 7: The citizens in the Reverification list can raise a grievance if they think that the reason mentioned for ineligibility is incorrect. 

Step 8: The final list of Eligible and Ineligible Beneficiaries is published in all secretariats. 

Step 9: The citizens mentioned in the Final Ineligible list can raise a grievance in Citizen Schemes Portal if he/she thinks that the reason for rejection is incorrect. 

Step 10: The scheme benefit is disbursed to all eligible beneficiaries through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). The acknowledgment of receipt of the payment by the beneficiary is done by the Volunteers / WEAs / WWDS using eKYC (Biometric Authentication).

Step 11: The beneficiaries can track the status of their payment on the Citizen Schemes Portal landing page by clicking on “Track Application Status”.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card
Rice Card / Income certificate
College admission particulars
Parents details
Declaration of No Government Employee / Pensioner
Non-taxpayer declaration / No Four-Wheeler / No Urban Property beyond 1500 Square feet / No agriculture land beyond the prescribed limit.
