Shrama Shakthi Scheme
Karnataka
ArtisansGovernment Scheme For MinoritiesKarnatakaLoanMinority
Details
Under this scheme, religious minority community entrepreneurs will be trained in artistic and technical skills and provided a loan of ₹50,000/- with a 4% rate of interest, to be paid in 36 installments.

If the beneficiary repays 50% of the loan within 36 months, the remaining 50% of the loan would be considered a back-end subsidy.  

If the beneficiary fails to repay the loan within 36 months, 50% of the backend subsidy will be considered as a loan.

The beneficiaries will be selected by a Selection Panel.
The Selection Panel which selects the beneficiary consists of 
Concerned Deputy Commissioner of the District – Chairman
Chief Executive Officer of the Zilla Panchayat – Vice-Chairman
Lead Bank Manager of the concerned District – Member
Concerned District Regional Transport Officer – Member
District Officer of the concerned District, Department of Minority Welfare- Member
District Manager of KMDC in the concerned district - Member Secretary

The following are the eligibility criteria for this scheme:
The age limit of the applicant should be between 18 and 55 years.
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
Applicants must belong to State Religious Minority Community.
Family income from all sources should be within ₹3.50 lakh per annum.
An applicant or his/her family members should not have availed benefits under any other scheme (Excluding the Arivu Scheme) of the KMDCL in the last 5 years.
No member of the applicant's family should be an employee of the State/Central/ Government Public Sector Units.
The applicant shall not be a loan defaulter in KMDC.

The application process has 2 parts, first it has to be done online and then the application further proceeds through offline channel. 
Step 01: First go to the official website, and fill out the application form.
Step 02:Print the application form.
Step 03:Submit this application form along with other relevant documents to the Selection Panel of your concerned district.
Step 04: After the approval of the Selection Panel, Subsidy will be transferred to your bank account.

Benefits
Under this scheme, a loan of ₹50,000 will be given to persons belonging to religious minority communities.
Under this scheme, religious minority community entrepreneurs will be trained in artistic and technical skills.
Eligibility
The age limit of the applicant should be between 18 and 55 years.
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State.
Applicants must belong to State Religious Minority Community.
Family income from all sources should be within Rs. 3.50 lakh per annum.
An applicant or his/her family members should not have availed benefits under any other scheme (Excluding the Arivu Scheme) of the KMDCL in the last 5 years.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: First go to the official website, and fill out the application form.

Step 02:Print the application form.

Step 03:Submit this application form along with other relevant documents to the Selection Panel of your concerned district.

Step 04: After the approval of the Selection Panel, Subsidy will be transferred to your bank account.
Documents Required
Print out of the completely filled online application form
Beneficiary's latest 2 passport size photos
Caste and income certificate
Copy of the Aadhaar card
Project report of the business
Copy of the Bank Passbook
Self-Declaration Form
Self-Declaration Form from Surety
