Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana - Delhi
Delhi
DelhiTirth YatraTourismTravel
Details
Details
Any resident of the national capital aged 60 or above can avail of the scheme after acquiring a certificate from a local MLA, stating that he lives in the legislator’s constituency. One attendant aged 21 or more can accompany each traveller. The government bears the expenses for the attendant too. The pilgrimage scheme had been halted due to COVID-19, but now it will be resuming. The “Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojna” was approved by the Delhi Cabinet on January 9, 2018. All expenses related to travel, food and accommodation are borne by the Delhi government.
A total of 1,100 residents per assembly constituency can avail this facility in a year subject to the cap of total 77,000 residents per year. Since its formal launch, 38,000 beneficiaries (senior citizens) have travelled under the scheme, the statement added.
Delhi Govt Tirth Yatra Online Registration form can be filled through e-district portal and anyone must not submit any manual application. For Delhi Govt Tirth Yatra Yojna, counters of SDM office, office of Tirth Vikas Samiti and MLA offices would serve as facilitation counters. Interested candidates can now apply online for Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana 2023 at the official website for 1st trip to pilgrims.

Benefits
Benefits
Free travel for senior citizens who cannot bear to travel alone.
Delhi Govt sent senior citizens living in Delhi’s old age homes on a trip.
In case of travelling with a spouse, the facility of only one attendant will be available.
The Delhi government bears all the expenses on the pilgrimage, including the travel, food and accommodation charges.
Facilities like paramedical staff and attendants are also provided during the journey.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
The applicant/spouse must be a resident of the territorial jurisdiction of the NCT of Delhi.
The applicant must have completed 60 years of age (As of 1st January of the year in which the Application for availing the Yojana is submitted).
The applicant/spouse must NOT be employed with Central/State Government or Local/Autonomous bodies.
The applicant/spouse must NOT have ever availed of the scheme in the past.
The age of the attendant must be more than 21 years(In case opting for attendant).
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Firstly visit the official website edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in
At the homepage, candidates have to click on the “New User” link under the ‘Citizen’s Corner’ section
Afterwards, the Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana Online Registration Form will appear
Candidates need to enter the details like ID proof and document proof to open the Free Tirth Yatra Scheme Delhi and complete the registration form.
Here candidates can fill in the complete details accurately to complete the Senior Citizen Free Teerth Yatra Yojana registration process.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Application in the prescribed Form along with Self Declaration.
Self-Attested copy of medical certificate mentioning the applicant/Spouse is mentally/physically fit to undertake the proposed journey.
Self-Attested Copies of Delhi Voter ID Card (For Applicant/Spouse).
Self Declaration.
Copy of Certificate from MLA for the residence of his/her constituency or any Minister from GNCT of Delhi or Chairman , Tirath Yaatra Vikas Samiti GNCT of Delhi.
