Internship Programme By The Ministry Of External Affairs
Ministry Of External Affairs
Internship
Details
The Ministry of External Affairs of the Govt. of India launched the first edition of its Internship Programme in 2022. The internship policy aims to take foreign policy closer to the people; bring in more focus on MEA; provide value to the interns; ensure better gender inclusivity and increase diversity in terms of qualifications, domicile, and socio-economic status in the cohort of interns engaged by the MEA. During the course of the internship, the Interns would be introduced to various aspects of the functioning of the Ministry, its attached offices, the public interface of the Ministry and its role in helping Indian citizens, as well as a possible visit one of the Missions abroad, subject to prevailing conditions. 

Benefits
An honorarium of ₹ 10,000 per month will be paid to each intern to defray basic costs. 
Introduction to the various aspects of the functioning of the MEA, its attached offices, the public interface of the Ministry, and its role in helping the Indian citizens.
Possible visit one of the Missions abroad, subject to prevailing conditions. 
Cost of one-time to and fro air travel subject to a ceiling of the prevailing economy class airfare between the State capital and Delhi, from the domicile State or from the college/university of the selected candidates will be provided. The interns would be responsible for their boarding and lodging in Delhi during the period of their internship. 
Interns will be assigned specific topics of work by the concerned Head of the Division (HOD) and may be required to conduct research, write reports, analyze evolving developments, or carry out any other task entrusted to them by the HOD.
A total of 75 internships will be offered in a year in a single term of three months from April to June.
Eligibility
1.  The internship shall generally be open to Indian citizens with a minimum educational qualification of a graduate degree from a recognized university at the time of applying.
2.  The internship shall also be open to student who is presently in the final year of their graduation, where an internship is a mandatory part of the final year curriculum. 
3.  The age of the candidate should not exceed 25 years as on 31 December of the year of internship. 

Note 1: Diversity: In line with the goal of taking the Ministry and foreign policy closer to the people from all parts of the country, the policy aims to ensure increased diversity amongst the group of interns with respect to gender, underprivileged sections, geographical domicile, and representation from both urban and rural areas. 

Note 2: Priority: Candidates from districts under the Transformation of Aspirational Districts Programme (TADP) and those belonging to SC/ST/OBC/EWS categories shall be given priority at different stages in the selection process. 
Application Process
Online
Registration Process
Step 1: Visit https://internship.mea.gov.in/registration
Step 2: Register by providing your Full Name, Gender, Email ID, and Password. Now, Confirm the password and fill in the captcha code. Click "Submit".
Step 3: You will receive a verification link (with the subject line "Internship Portal Registration") from egov.egit@mea.gov.in. In the email, click "Activate Account" to verify your Email ID.

***

Application Process
Step 1: Visit https://internship.mea.gov.in/dashboard and click the "Apply for Internship" icon provided at the middle of the page.
Step 2: You will be directed to https://internship.mea.gov.in/applicationForm/1/
In the application form, provide all the mandatory details: Personal, Educational, and Internship Details. Upload the mandatory documents. 
Step 3: Click on "Final Preview" to preview your application and make any changes. Finally, click on "Submit" to submit your application.

Note: All selected interns will be required to join the Ministry on the same day in April 2022. Each intern will be engaged for a minimum period of one month and a maximum period of three months. 

***

Selection Process
Step 1: The selection process will consist of two stages viz. Preliminary Screening and Personal Interview. Weightage will be based on academic performance assessed by the percentage of marks obtained in +2 and graduation exams.

Step 3: State-wise merit lists will be prepared – separately for male and female candidates – by elimination based on academic performance in +2 and graduation exams. Priority will be given to applicants from TADP districts during the Preliminary Screening stage and to applicants belonging to SC/ST/OBC/EWS categories in the Personal Interview stage. 

Step 4: Candidates selected in the merit lists will be called for a personal interview to be conducted by video conferencing. 

Step 5: A maximum of 75 candidates will be selected from the interview process and offered internships. If any selected candidate opts out, the next candidate in the merit list from the individual state will be offered the opportunity. 

Note 1: The selection process will follow a ‘quota cum weightage’ system. There may be 2 interns from each of the 28 States; 2 interns from each of the 8 Union Territories and 3 more interns with maximum marks from TADP districts / underprivileged sections of the society. A minimum of 30% of the 75 internships may be filled by women candidates.

Note 2: The total number of candidates called for interviews will be three times the number of interns to be engaged in each term.

***
Documents Required
1.  Aadhaar Number
2.  Proof of Identity
3.  Proof of Address
4.  Proof of Age/DOB (Class 10th/12th Marksheet)
5.  Proof of Current Educational Qualification
6.  Bank Details (for the payment of stipend)

At the time of joining on selection, the applicant shall be required to submit:
1.  A letter from their Head of Institution/Head of Department/ Principal, indicating their status in the Institution.
2.  “No Objection Certificate (NOC)” from their Head of Institution/Head of Department/ Principal, allowing the student to undergo the Internship program for the proposed period.

At the end of the internship, each intern shall submit a detailed report on the work carried out and, if required, make a presentation on it. 
