Unnati Scheme
Karnataka

Details
Unnati, a first of its kind initiative of the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Karnataka intends to provide a comprehensive entrepreneurship platform for startups. 

The aim of this program is to cater to the end to end requirements of a startup i.e. from identifying the innovation, validating it, providing seed capital and eventually giving them the market access

Under the Unnati Yojana for SC/ST community of Karnataka state government will give up to Rs 50 lakhs rupee financial support to the winning entrepreneurs to develop tech-based solutions. 

The total investment under the Scheme for Entrepreneurs is Rs 20 crore. This Scheme will be implemented under the two categories. In the first stage of implementation, the Government will provide financial support to the SC/ST Entrepreneurs.

Benefits
Under this scheme, the beneficiaries are Categories into following two categories
1st Category:
The first category involves SC/ST entrepreneurs with a pioneering through, irrespective of the domain they may be involved in.
2nd Category:
The second category includes start-ups operated by any community with a notable innovative idea. The idea of the entrepreneurs in this case, must be a solution to the real-world problems in areas pertaining to health, education, sanitation, waste segregation and mechanized scavenging.
Eligibility
1. Start-ups with an innovative tech based idea/solution.
2. Should be registered as an entity (Pvt Ltd/OPC, LLP/Partnership, Proprietorship) in Karnataka.
3. At least one of the members/co founders should belong to SC/ST community or should hold a substantial share
4. Such SC/ST member/co founder should continue to be a part of the business for at least one year from the date of receiving benefits from the department
5. Terms and conditions of ownership should not be altered to his/her disadvantage during the course of business
6. Total revenue generated in terms of turnover from the date of incorporation should be less than INR. 50 Crore
7. At least 50% of qualified workforce should be engaged in Karnataka
8. Less than 4 years from the date of incorporation for Technology based and 07 years for Biotechnology based companies
9. Start-ups applying under social impact should justify how the technological innovations help people belonging to Schedule caste community.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: Visit official website karnataka.gov.in
Step 02: Click at Login option
Step 03: Enter your valid email id, mobile no. and click at “send OTP” button
Step 04: Enter OTP receive at register mobile no. to login
Step 05: Follow the instructions and fill your personal details
Step 06: Choose startup funding for SC/ST application forms
Step 07: Fill all the details in application form and upload all required documents and click a submit option
Documents Required
SC/ST Certificate of the candidate Entrepreneurs.
At least 50% of the qualified workforce.
Start-up registration documents.
Aadhar Card Number.
PAN Number of Founders.
Startup presentation deck.
Incorporation or Registration certificate.
