Unemployment Allowance
Chhattisgarh
Berozgari BhattaFinancial AssistanceUnemployment
Details
The main objective of the Chhattisgarh Berozgari Bhatta Yojana is to provide financial assistance to the unemployed youth of the state till they get employment.

Benefits
Under the Chhattisgarh Unemployment Allowance Scheme, financial assistance of Rs.2500/- per month will be provided to the eligible unemployed.
Eligibility
Conditions of qualification
The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 years to 35 years as on 01 April of the year in which the application is made.
The applicant must have passed the minimum Higher Secondary (12th) examination from a recognized board.
Should be registered in any District Employment and Self-Employment Guidance Center of Chhattisgarh and his employment registration should be at least two years old with higher secondary or above qualification as on April 01 of the year of application.
The applicant should not have any source of income of his own and the annual income of the applicant's family from all sources should not exceed Rs.2,50,000/-.

Conditions of disqualification
If more than one member of a family fulfills the conditions of eligibility for unemployment allowance, only one member of the family will be approved for unemployment allowance. In such a situation, unemployment allowance will be approved to that member whose age is more. In case of equality of age, the member who got registered first in the employment office will be eligible for unemployment allowance. In case both the age and date of employment registration are same, the member who has higher educational qualification will be eligible.
If any member of the applicant's family is employed in any category of job other than Class-IV or Group-D in any Central or State Government organization or local body, such applicant will be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
If the applicant is offered self-employment or any job in government or private sector, but the applicant does not accept the offer, then such applicant will be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
Family members of former and present Ministers, State Ministers and former or present Members of Parliament or State Legislatures, former and present Mayors of Municipal Corporations and former and present Chairpersons of District Panchayats shall be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
The family members of pensioners who receive monthly pension of Rs.10,000 or more will be ineligible for unemployment allowance. 
The family members of those families who have paid income tax in the previous assessment year will be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
Family members of other professionals such as engineers, doctors, lawyers, chartered accountants and architects registered with professional bodies shall be ineligible for unemployment allowance.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: To take advantage of Chhattisgarh unemployment allowance, the applicant has to apply by visiting the online portal.
Step 02: Applicant has to create his account through mobile number. After registration, one has to login to the portal through login ID and password. After that personal information and education related information will have to be filled.
Step 03: The requested documents have to be uploaded. After that the application form of the applicant will be submitted as soon as he clicks on the submit button.
Step 04: The application form and documents will be scrutinized by the Employment Officers. After that the applicants will be called for verification in the office of their Gram Panchayat or Ward. The application form and documents will be matched with the original documents received.
Step 05: On completion of verification and approved applications will be sent for the amount of allowance. Every month, the amount of allowance will automatically come in the account of the applicant
Documents Required
Local residence certificate of Chhattisgarh.
10th mark sheet/certificate for date of birth.
12th mark sheet/certificate for eligibility.
Income Certificate (issued within 1 year).
Latest passport size color photograph (JPG format).
Live Employment Registration Identity Card (X-10).
Aadhaar Card (Only those applicants have to upload Aadhaar Card whose Aadhaar number is not verified through the portal with the Aadhaar number mentioned in their ration card).
