Residential School For Blinds
Jammu and Kashmir
BlindChildPerson With DisabilitySchoolShelter
Details
The "Residential School for Blinds" have been established by the Social Welfare Department, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir for the protection, welfare, and education of the Blind. The school is located at Roop Nagar, near Fire Brigade Office, Muthi, Jammu, 180013. The intake capacity of the school is 50 inmates. The beneficiary shall approach the concerned District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) for submission of the application. This is a 100% State Sponsored Scheme, and only the permanent residents of the state of Jammu & Kashmir can apply for this scheme.

Benefits
The inmates are provided with free education, overall development, and vocational training for which they are found fit.
The inmates are provided with clothing, free boarding and lodging, and pocket money @ ₹ 500/- per inmate per month.
The inmates are given lessons in music.
The inmates are retained in the institution till graduation or till attaining 25 years of age, whichever is earlier.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a domicile / permanent resident of the state of Jammu & Kashmir.
The applicant should be a Person with Disability (PwD) (total/partial absence of sight).
The age of the applicant should be between 6 to 21 years.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The guardian or the social worker of the eligible boys and girls should visit the District Social Welfare Office, and request a hard copy of the format of the application form for the scheme from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach all the (self-attested) mandatory documents.
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Acquire the receipt/acknowledgment of the successful submission of the application form from the District Social Welfare Office.

Post-Application Processes:
On receipt of the application duly completed by the applicant, the DSWO authorizes the Superintendent of the Residential School for the Blinds to admit the beneficiary to the institution (subject to the availability of vacancy).

Check Application Status:
The District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO) can be contacted regarding the application status of the scheme.
Documents Required
Residential Certificate / Domicile Certificate of the State/UT of Jammu & Kashmir.
Disability Certificate (indicating a total/partial absence of sight).
3 Passport-Sized Photograph (Signed Across).
Proofs reg. Educational Qualifications (if any).
Aadhaar Card.
Proof of Age.
Any other document required by the District Social Welfare Office.
