Meghalaya Tourism Development & Investment Promotion
Meghalaya
Financial AssistanceHomestaysMeghalayaResortTourismTravel
Details
Homestays: Provision of affordable accommodation to tourists in private houses with basic amenities would help in bridging the gap in the shortage of accommodation in the State during the tourist season.

Resorts: Provision of affordable accommodation to tourists at various destinations in the form of cottages which are aesthetically and eco-friendly designed, taking into consideration the natural landscape of the area. These accommodation facilities should necessarily be reliable, safe and clean. They should be preferably built beyond Shillong to encourage tourists to stay at destinations listed for development which can in turn create an income transfer and job creation opportunity at the locations.

Benefits
To encourage public participation in the tourism sector, homestay accommodation would be given an incentive as follows:-
1) Assistance of 30% of the project cost limiting the project cost to a maximum of Rs 16.00 Lakhs
2) The maximum number of rooms that can be constructed under this scheme will be limited to 4 ( four) rooms
3) Each room should necessarily be having a minimum area of approximately 15 sq. m 
4) Each room should consist of a bedroom and an attached toilet with modern fittings and a walk-in closet. 
5) Entrepreneur’s contribution would amount to 2% of the project cost 

To encourage private participation in the construction of such resorts incentives would be given to entrepreneurs as follows :- 
1)  Assistance of 30% of the project cost limiting the project cost to Rs 1.00 Crores
2) The resorts should consist of minimum 10 ( ten) numbers of rooms 
3) Each Cottage should have a minimum plinth area of 24 sq m 
4) Should have spaces for central reception area with lobby, restaurant, kitchen etc having a built up area of 240 sq m approximately. 
5) Entrepreneur’s contribution would amount to 2% of the project cost
Eligibility
The cost of the project should be within Rs 16.00 Lakhs for homestays and within Rs 100.00 Lakhs for resorts. In case the project cost is above Rs 16.00 Lakhs for homestays and above Rs 100.00 Lakhs for resorts the assistance would be limited to 30% of the amount of Rs 16.00 Lakhs for homestays and 30% of the amount of Rs 100.00 Lakhs for resorts.
The entrepreneur should own the land for the project in the case of Resorts and should be the owner of the property with built-up houses in the case of homestays.
The project should be completed within a period of 18 (eighteen) months from the date of disbursement of the incentive for the Resort and within a period of 12(twelve) months in case of homestays. 
The scheme is available only for units set up on or after the date of notification of the incentive scheme.
The entrepreneur will have to follow the Minimum Wage policy of the Government.
Application Process
Offline
Download the form from here.
Submit the application form with the required documents.
The cost of the Application Form and Scheme Brochure is Rs 5000/- This amount is non-refundable. 
The amount is to be deposited in the form of a Demand Draft drawn in favour of the Director of Tourism, Meghalaya, Shillong.
Documents Required
Application Form
Identity and existence of Applicant
Copy of record of right over the project land.
Affidavit in enclosed format II with the application form.
Prescribed cost of application form and scheme brochure.
Copy of last submitted income tax return, if any.
A copy of the Detailed Project Report submitted to any FI/Bank indicating the feasibility of the project.
Letter from FI/Bank that the loan case is under consideration.
 A key map of the project land (free hand sketch) showing the layout of the project and land boundary features, source of water, electricity (if any), existing land use etc.
NOC for the creation of such a facility in that area
