Silpi Pension Scheme - Assam
Assam
Art And CultureArtistDivyangFinancial AssistancePension
Details
Silpi Pension Scheme is a Welfare Scheme provided by the Government of Assam to support the Artists of Assam. Artiste/Family pension along with Barxik Silpi Sanman (One-time financial assistance) of the Govt. of Assam will be offered to the person having outstanding contributions in the field of Art and Culture in the State and Special Family Pension will also be offered to indigent families of Artistes who had made a spectacular contribution in the State’s Cultural sphere and have unfortunately passed away. There are 4 types of Schemes under the Silpi Pension Scheme:

1. Artist Pension Scheme
2. Family Pension Scheme
3. Barxik Silpi Sanman (Ex-Gratia Grant) Scheme
4. One-time Special Financial Assistance to Families of deceased artist Scheme

The main objective of the Scheme is to support the artist and needy families of Artists who made contributions to the field of Art and Culture in the State of Assam. It also aims to provide Financial assistance to the artist and their families in different schemes. It provides pensions to families and artists monthly for better livelihood and gives recognition to the Art and Culture of Assam through this platform. The financial assistance schemes are expected to encourage artists and technicians to engage in their creative pursuits with renewed vigour.

For Divyang and Bed-ridden artists, the Cultural Development Officers or the Junior Assistants of Cultural Centres under the Directorate of Cultural Affairs from their respective districts will visit the homes of those applicants for applying through an online process. The names and contact numbers of concerned Cultural Development Officers/Junior Assistants will be available on the official website.

Benefits
Under the Artist Pension Scheme, the beneficiary will receive an amount of ₹8,000/- (per month).
Under the Family Pension Scheme, the beneficiary will receive an amount of ₹4,000/- (per month).
Under the Barxik Silpi Sanman (Ex-Gratia Grant), the beneficiary will receive an amount of ₹50,000/- (One time).
Under the One-time special financial assistance to families of deceased Artist Scheme, the beneficiary will receive an amount of ₹50,000/- (One time).
Eligibility
The applicant must be a permanent resident of the State of Assam.
An artist, who has made outstanding contributions in the field of Music, Dance, Fine Arts, Puppetry, Musk making, and also covering artists and technicians associated with Mobile Theatre and Amateur Theatre and Films, is eligible under this scheme.
Indigent families of artists who have made outstanding contributions in the field of Music, Dance, Fine Arts, Puppetry, Musk making, etc. are eligible under this scheme.
The applicant must have a recognition proof certificate.
Application Process
Online
Step 01: Online forms for application will be available on the official website: https://www.silpisanmanassam.com
Step 02: You will be able to See Apply Online on Homepage and Click on it.
Step 03: In the Next Step, You will be able to See Registration in the new window.
Step 04: Select the Category Fill in the Personal Information and Get OTP on your Mobile number.
Step 05: After filling out your Registration Form, you will have to Upload all the Documents listed Above.
Step 06: Now click on Submit Button, you will be Registered for the Scheme.
Documents Required
PAN Card 
Aadhaar Card
Age-Proof Certificate
Domicile Certificate
Identity proof (Passport, Aadhaar, Voter Id, Driving License, Ration Card, Bank Passbook, Photo Identity Card, etc.) 
Passport Photograph of the applicant
Single passport photograph of the applicant and Joint photograph of Husband and Wife (In case of Family Pension) 
Bank Passbook first page
Income Certificate
Death Certificate of the Artist (In case of Family Pension)
Disability Certificate. ( In the case of Divyang Artists)
Achievements proof certificates
Recognitions Proof certificate
National/International Recognition certificates, if any
Recommendation if any
