Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana
Delhi
CoachingCompetitive ExaminationScheduled CastesStipendStudents
Details
The scheme “Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana” was launched by the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST/OBC/Minorities, Government of NCT of Delhi vide Cabinet Decision No.2526 Dated 12-12-2017.
Objective:
The objective of the scheme is to provide quality coaching for economically disadvantaged Scheduled Castes (SCs) candidates to enable them to compete in Competitive examinations and succeed in obtaining an appropriate job in the Public/Private sector.
The courses for which the Coaching will be imparted shall be as follows:
Group A and B examinations are conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the Staff Selection Commission (SSC), various Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs), and Judicial Services Examination.
Group A and B examinations conducted by the State Public Service Commission;
Officers’ Grade examinations conducted by Banks, Insurance Companies, and Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs)
Premier Entrance Examinations for admission in (a) engineering (e.g. IIT-JEE & AIEEE), (b) Medical (e.g. AIPMT), (c) professional courses like Management (e.g. CAT) and Law (e.g. CLAT) and (d) such other disciplines, Government may decide from time to time.
Quantum of Fee: The admissible coaching fee in respect of various courses would be as under:- 
Sl. No. Name of course for which coaching to be provided Duration of Coaching Maximum ceiling of Coaching fee paid to institution (inclusive of both govt. as well as student share) per candidate (in ₹)
1 Civil Service (Preliminary)/State Civil Services (Preliminary) Minimum 5 Months 40,000
2 Civil Service (Mains)/State Civil Services (Mains) Minimum 4 Months 40,000
3 Entrance examinations for Engineering, Medical, MBA, and other professional courses Minimum 4 Months 40,000
4 Other Group A&B examinations conducted by UPSC, State Public Service Commissioners (SPSCs), Group B Examinations conducted by SSC and (SPSCs) Minimum 4 Months 30,000
5 Officers Grade examinations for recruitment in the Banks, LIC, GICs, PSUs Minimum 4 Months 30,000
The ratio of the Candidates:
The ratio of students who have completed their studies from Govt. and Private Schools to be coached under the Scheme will be 75:25.

Benefits
A monthly stipend of ₹2500/- per student will be paid for local students for attending the coaching classes. 
Under the scheme, 75% of the admissible coaching fee amount is to be provided by the Government and the remaining 25% is to be borne by the students. 
In case of students having a total family income of up to ₹2.00 lacs, a full admissible coaching fee is to be provided by the Govt.
Note 01: The institute would have to pay a stipend to each student on a monthly basis through PFMS/ ECS or cheque. Cash payment would not be allowed.
Note 02: Benefits under the scheme can be availed by a particular student not more than twice, irrespective of the number of chances; he/she may be entitled to in a particular competitive examination. However, only 50 % of the admissible coaching fee is to be provided by the Govt. for students who avail of 2nd time coaching facility under the scheme. The coaching institution will also be required to take an undertaking from the students that they have not taken benefit more than twice under the scheme.
Eligibility
Eligibility criteria for students:
Only students belonging to the Scheduled Caste category residing in Delhi & who have passed 10th and 12th class (or studying in class XII) from the schools in Delhi, having a total family income of not more than ₹6.00 lakh per annum will be eligible under the scheme.
The students must have secured a prescribed percentage of marks in the qualifying examinations for which free coaching is proposed to be imparted under the scheme.
Note 01: Sponsoring Department may also nominate some needy students for coaching under the selected institutions.
Note 02: Income and Caste Certificates issued by the office of the concerned District Magistrate should be obtained from the Students by the selected institutes.
Note 03: Where examination is conducted in two stages viz. Preliminary and Main, the candidates will be entitled to free coaching for both examinations. They will be entitled to free coaching for both Preliminary and Main examinations at their convenience. However, there will be no restriction on the number of chances for coaching for interview, if the candidate is selected for interview.
Note 04: The selected students shall have to attend all classes. In the event of any student remaining absent for more than 15 days, without any valid reason, the benefits of free coaching to him/her shall be discontinued and another student shall be taken in his/her place.
Eligibility criteria for applying for Empanelment of Coaching Institutions:
The institute should be a registered body or run by any organization registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860/ Companies Act, 2013, or any other relevant Act of the State/Union Territory.
The institute should have experience of at least 3 years as of the date of notification inviting applications from institutions for empanelment by the Department.
The institute should have been fully functional for a minimum period of 3 years at the time of applying under this scheme and having a minimum enrolment of 100 students in the courses each year for at least two years, immediately prior to the year in which selected for empanelment.
The institute must have the proper infrastructure to meet the entire requirement for providing quality coaching in the courses applied.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: The applicant needs to visit the concerned coaching institute (Reputed institutions/centers run by registered private institutions /NGOs.) 
Step 02: Now, the interested students will have to collect the registration form from the respective coaching institutes.
Step 03: Fill in all the mandatory details and attach all the necessary documents with the application form.
Step 04: Submit the filled application form to the respective coaching institute.  
Step 05: After successful verification, the students can avail the benefits of the scheme.
Note 01: The students should be selected by the coaching institution based on academic criteria/eligibility tests prescribed by the institution itself. However, institutions may relax these criteria for SC candidates suitably. In the absence of any criteria fixed up by the institution, students should be selected based on merit prepared on the basis of marks obtained by them in the qualifying examinations for appearing in the relevant competitive examinations for which coaching is to be imparted.
Note 02: Sponsoring Department may also nominate some needy students for coaching under the selected institutions.
Note 03: With a view to giving the scheme wider publicity, the coaching institute will issue advertisements in the local newspapers and invite applications from eligible SC candidates as per the provisions of the scheme.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Educational Certificate (10th & 12th mark sheet)
Residence proof
Caste certificate
Ration card
Passport size photo
Bank account details
