Bhagyalaxmi Scheme
Karnataka
Below Poverty LineBhagyalaxmi YojanaFemale ChildrenFinancial Aid
Details
Detail
The Karnataka state government will give female children financial aid under the Karnataka Bhagya Lakshmi Scheme. The payment of this support is to be made through the mother, father, or legal guardian provided that all requirements are met. 

The objective of this scheme
To promote the birth of girl children among families identified as below the poverty line.
To increase the status of girl child thereby raising the status of the society.
To Promote the birth of girl child in economically weaker families and to raise their status within the family and society.
To provide Financial assistance to the girl child through her mother/father/natural guardian subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions

Benefits
Benefits
Beneficiary: Mother/Father/Natural guardian
The child gets health insurance coverage up to a maximum of Rs. 25,000 a year.
The annual scholarship of Rs. 300 to Rs. 1,000 up to the tenth standard is given to the girl
To Promote the birth of girl children in economically weaker families and to raise their status within the family and society.
To provide Financial assistance to the girl child through her mother/father/natural guardian subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions
Apart from these benefits, the parents have got Rs. 1 lakh in case of an accident and Rs. 42,500 for the natural death of the beneficiary. At the end of 18 years, the beneficiary would be paid Rs.34, 751.
Certain interim payments such as annual scholarships and insurance benefits have made available to the beneficiary on continued fulfilment of the eligibility criteria

The annual scholarship amount for Bhagya Laxmi Scheme is given in the table below:
A scholarship of Rs.300 per annum for girls in classes 1st to 3rd
A scholarship of Rs.500 per annum for girls in classes 4th
A scholarship of Rs.600 per annum for girls in classes 5th
A scholarship of Rs.700 per annum for girls in classes 6th and 7th
A scholarship of Rs.800 per annum for girls in classes 8th
A scholarship of Rs.1,000 per annum for girls in classes 9th and 10th
Eligibility
Eligibility
A girl’s birth must be registered within a year after her birth date.
Girls shouldn’t engage in child labour.
Benefits from the Bhagyalakshmi scheme are available to BPL families with up to 2 female children.
Girls should have been immunized correctly in the health department’s program.
Girl children must be born after 31 March 2006 in a BPL family.
A girl must have completed the eighth grade to be eligible for the maturity amount
She cannot have been married off before turning 18 years old.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Application Process
First of all, go to the official website of Bhagya Laxmi Yojana Karnataka.
The homepage of the website will open on the screen.
Now click on the Bhagya Laxmi Yojana Application form link.
The PDF of the application form will open on the screen.
Now, fill in the form with all the required details.
Finally submit the form to the concerned authority.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Application form of the Bhagya Laxmi Scheme.
Certified copy of the birth certificate of the girl child.
Income details of the parents.
Address proof of the parents of the girl child.
BPL Card.
Bank details of the girl child card.
Photograph of a child with parents.
While registering 2nd child under the scheme, a Family Planning certificate is to be submitted along with all the above documents.
Copy of marriage certificate/Self-declaration certificate of parents.
