Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Reimbursement Scheme
Goa
BusinessEntrepreneurIPRReimbursementStartup
Details
The scheme “Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Reimbursement Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. The scheme is a part of the Start-up Policy 2017. The objective of the policy is to make Goa an aspirational geographical and human resource base for startups. The objective is to invite the best entrepreneurial minds and build a robust start-up ecosystem in the State. The policy contains various incentives for Start-ups and to avail the benefits of these incentives, the government has proposed many schemes under the policy.

Benefits
For start-ups registering national and international IP, the Start-up Promotion Cell will reimburse up to 50% of the cost incurred by the start-up in fees and all other costs associated with IP application, if the IP is registered successfully, subject to a cap of ₹ 2,00,000 for national IP and ₹ 5,00,000 for international IP.
This benefit can be availed by a maximum of 200 startups each year.
Once the application is approved by the SPC, the approved amount shall be disbursed within 60 days from the date of approval.

NOTE 1: Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement. The SPC shall reserve the sole right to accept or reject applications.
NOTE 2: The reimbursement amount will be released/ disbursed on the seniority basis/ SPC recommendation depending upon the budget allotment of the State Government.
NOTE 3: The reimbursement will be in the nature of a one-time payment and the applicant cannot apply under this provision more than once for the same IP application. 
Eligibility
All the Start-ups certified by the Start-up Promotion Cell (SPC) having a valid start-up certificate number are eligible.
IP created for a technology-based service or product or uses technology for enhancing functionality or reach of an existing product or service is eligible.
The applicant should have already filed or been granted an IP with the concerned authority. 
The applicant should have paid the mandatory government fees and attorney fees in this regard.
Only expenditures incurred after notification of Goa Start-up Policy 2017 within the validity of this policy and paid for digitally would be considered.
NOTE: If the applicant has applied for the reimbursement benefits/ grant for the same IP in any other scheme of the Centre or other State Government, then the application will be rejected.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ & + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.

OR 

Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form. Fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to SPC via Email at spc-dit.goa@gov.in

NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme at any time of the financial year but only within 6 months of incurring the relevant expenditure.

Evaluation Process
Step 1: On receipt of the complete application, the SPC shall inspect and verify the contents of the application. Based on the received documents, SPC will scrutinize and perform necessary due diligence on the expenses incurred by the applicant.
Step 2: The SPC shall recommend the application for the sanction of reimbursement of the costs incurred towards filing or grant of IP as the case may be. 

Notification
The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC.
Documents Required
Copy of successful IP registration*
Original Proof of Payment- Detailed statement of expenses incurred towards the IP Registration along with copies of invoices & receipts from the competent authority and legal counsel as applicable*
The form and documents as mentioned in Annexure 1*.
