INSPIRE Awards – MANAK (Million Minds Augmenting National Aspirations and Knowledge)
Ministry Of Science And Technology
AwardDBTDirect Benefit TransferInnovationSchoolStudent
Details
‘Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research’ (INSPIRE) scheme is one of the flagship programmes of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), Ministry Of Science And Technology, Government of India. The scheme was launched by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on 13th December 2008, the INSPIRE Awards – MANAK (Million Minds Augmenting National Aspirations and Knowledge), being executed by DST with National Innovation Foundation – India (NIF), an autonomous body of DST, aims to motivate students in the age group of 10-15 years and studying in classes 6 to 10. The objective of the scheme is to target one million original ideas/innovations rooted in science and societal applications to foster a culture of creativity and innovative thinking among school children. Under this scheme, schools can nominate 2-3 best original ideas/innovations of students.

Theme
Schools should encourage students to identify local problems and come up with solutions to them as projects. Some of these projects may be aligned with National Flagship programs such as Swachh Bharat, Digital India, Swasth Bharat, Make in India, etc. mentioned in the E-MIAS portal.

Benefits
Disbursement of INSPIRE Award of ₹ 10,000/- into bank accounts of students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme .
Mentoring and funding support for prototype development to 1000 students shortlisted after SLEPC for participation in NLEPC.
1,00,00 awards are given every year.
1,000 Prototype Models/Projects will participate at the Annual National Level Exhibition and Project Competition (NLEPC) to be organised by DST.
Jury would shortlist top 60 Models/Projects for National Awards and future ideation.
Top 60 Models/Projects will be selected for National Awards and top three (3) will be given National Awards (Gold / Silver / Bronze medals).
The top 60 National winners will also participate in Festival of Innovation & Entrepreneurship.
The projects having potential of Product/Process development will be further supported for commercialisation.
The projects having possibility of filing the patents will be supported by the NIF/TIFAC.
Every year selected students will also be sent to Japan under Sakura Exchange Program by DST.
Eligibility
Eligibility Criteria for Student
The applicant should be in the age group of 10-15 years.
The applicant should be in Class 6th to Class 10th.

Eligibility Criteria for School
All schools in the country are eligible irrespective of Central/State Board affiliation.
Upto 2-3 nominations from each school are accepted every year.

Selection Criteria
Selection of ideas/innovations will be based on novelty, social applicability, environment friendliness, user friendliness and comparative advantage over the existing similar technologies.
Application Process
Online
Before filling out the registration, the school must have a valid email ID. It is advisable to use the school email ID which can be used, even if the authority changes.

Step 1: Registration
Visit the Official Website/Portal of INSPIRE-MANAK.
Create an Account: Click on the "Authorised Login" icon at the top of the page. Then click "School Authority". 
On the next page, click "For New Registration - Click Here", you will be taken to the registration page.
On the next screen, enter the 11-digit School U-DISE Code / School Code.
On the next screen, fill in the following mandatory fields: State / UT *, Categorising Schools *, School Board *, Revenue District *, Revenue Sub-district (Tehsil / Taluka / Block etc.) *, Education District *, Name of the School *, Complete Postal Address *, PIN Code *, Official Phone of School (if any), FAX Number (if any), E-mail Address of School Authorized officer *, Web Address (if any), Mobile Number of School Authorized officer *, School Code, if any (as allotted by district/state education authorities).

Step 2: Approval and User Credentials.
After Registration, you will get the Application Number and when the District Authority approves, you will get the User ID and Password.

Step 3: Application
Use the User ID and Password to log in.
Use the "Student Nomination" option to start nominating the students.
In the online form, fill in the following mandatory fields and upload the required documents. Make any necessary corrections.
Acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions, declaration, and privacy policy.
Click the "Forward Application" button to send the application, then click "Generate Acknowledgement". You'll receive an Acknowledgement, save it for future reference.

Help and Support
If you encounter any issues or have questions, there is a support system in place, including contact information for technical support or a helpline: 02764-261139, 096384 18605,  inspire@nifindia.org, 09:30 AM To 6:00 PM, Monday to Friday.

Timelines
Letter to all State Education Secretaries/SNOs for sending fresh nominations/proposals: By 27th March.
Receipt of nominations along with Idea / Concept details: By 31st July
Shortlisting of nominations by NIF/DST: By 15th August
Sanction of ₹10,000/- INSPIRE Award amount to students and funds to DLEPC and SLEPC for holding exhibitions: By 15th September
Mentorship workshop and sanction of funds for prototype development and preparation of prototype models to State Level Awardee: By 1st November
Holding of NLEPC: 1st week of December
Participation at the Annual Festival of Innovation and Entrepreneurship: Month of March
Documents Required
11 Digit School U-DISE Code / School Code
Student Scanned Photograph (JPG/JPEG/PNG/GIF/BMP, 2 MB)
Idea/Innovation Synopsis Document (PDF/JPG/JPEG/Word, 2MB)
Brief Writeup on the Idea/Innovation (not exceeding 300 words, in English only)
Details of the Aadhaar-linked Bank Account of the Nominated Student
Idea/Innovation Photo (optional)
Idea/Innovation Video/Audio (optional)
Brief Description of the Objective Criteria to select the Students (100 words)
Utilisation Certificate (UC)/ Statement of Expenditure (SE) should be sent to DST immediately after the DLEPC/SLEPC to enable quick release of funds for the next time. UCs should be in GFR 2017 format.
