Saphalam Scheme For Transgender Students Pursuing Professional Courses
Kerala
EducationFinancial AssistanceProfessional CoursesStudentTransgender
Details
The “Saphalam Scheme for Transgender Students Pursuing Professional Courses” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. The Transgender community faces severe problems such as discrimination and infringement of rights. It is the responsibility of the government to provide special privileges to such target groups, bringing them to the mainstream of society by ensuring social rehabilitation.
            Due to a lack of proper education and social stigma in society, the Transgender community is also subjected to severe unemployment. Thus, the Social Justice Department has rolled out this innovative scheme that provides financial assistance to Transgender students pursuing Degree/Diploma level professional courses. This scheme would provide an opening to Transgender students who possess high technical/professional competence.
          Those students who have qualified for such professional courses and suffer from financial constraints can continue their education uninterrupted which in turn would increase their employment opportunities and help them to secure a good job and thereby lead a quality life. 

Benefits
Under the scheme, financial assistance up to ₹1,00,000/- per year will be provided to transgender students for pursuing professional courses at the degree/diploma level.
Eligibility
The applicant should be Transgender.
The applicant should be a resident of Kerala.
Transgender students who have secured admission in merit seats in Government, Aided/Self-financing colleges are eligible under this scheme.
Transgender students who secure admission for courses MBBS, Bachelor of Veterinary Science (BVSc), and BSc Agriculture in Government colleges are eligible.
Transgender students pursuing Diploma level government-accredited courses are also eligible.
Transgender students who have completed 18 years must submit a copy of their Transgender ID card.
Those Transgender students who are below 18 years must submit a self-declaration statement duly certified by the Head of Institution/Parent.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login/Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Identity card i.e. Aadhaar Card, Election ID/ Voter ID
Transgender students above 18 years of age should submit a copy of their Transgender ID card.
Transgender students who have not completed 18 years of age should produce self-declaration with attestation of parent/head of the institution.
Mobile number
Email id
Passport size photo
Self-declaration Affidavit stating that the applicant is Transgender.
Bank details- Copy of Pass Book
A certificate from the institution/supervisors regarding admission on a merit basis
Educational Certificates/Course Certificates
Letter pad of the College/Institution with attached certificate of fee details
Other documents, if any
