Financial Assistance For Cultural Activities In Performing Arts For Building Grants Including Studio Theatres
Ministry Of Culture
ArtsCultureFinancial AssistanceGrantsStudioTheatres
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Cultural Activities in Performing Arts for Building Grants Including Studio Theatres” was launched by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. The objective of the Scheme is to support voluntary cultural organizations and government-aided cultural organizations in their efforts to create appropriately equipped training, rehearsal, and performance spaces for artists.
Sanction and Release of Grant:
1. On approval of the project proposal, the Ministry will communicate the decision to the organization through the publication of Minutes on the Website of the Ministry under the Scheme, indicating the approved total cost of the project, the quantum of assistance sanctioned, the quantum of matching share of the organization and other terms and conditions for release of the sanctioned amount of assistance. Thereafter, the grant will be released to WZCC, Udaipur, the designated Central Nodal Agency (CNA) under the scheme, for further disbursal of the grant installment to these organizations.
2. The sanction letter will also specify the building/equipment for which the assistance has been sanctioned.
3. The financial assistance will be released in two equal installments of 50% each of the sanctioned amount of Central assistance in the following manner:
a) First Installment: The first installment equal to 50% of the sanctioned assistance will be released on approval of the project proposal/sanction by the Ministry without any further correspondence.
b) Second & Final Installment: The second & final installment equal to 50% of the sanctioned grant will be released on submission of:
Physical and financial progress report on the project from a Registered Architect (in case of building grants) and from a Chartered Accountant (in case of equipment grants), giving details of the work already carried out/ completed, along with the photographs of site/equipment.
A certificate from a Registered Architect (for construction of the Auditorium/Studio Theatre) and from Chartered Accountant (in case of grants sanctioned for purchase of equipment) to the effect that: The project has been completed/ is in progress as per the approved plan; That there has been no violation of the local laws or the approved plan of construction/development; The work done is of satisfactory quality; and indicating Valuation of the cost of the work done and the further amount required to complete the project and equipment have been purchased in accordance with the approval given by the Ministry.
The audited statement of accounts of the project, duly signed by a Chartered Accountant.
A Utilization Certificate from a Chartered Accountant, certifying that the first installment of assistance has been fully utilized for the project.
A certificate from a Chartered Accountant certifying that the organization has spent a minimum of 50% of its matching share.
Before releasing the second installment, the Ministry will get the project physically inspected through its representative(s) or a team of Experts.
Conditions of Grant:
1. Separate accounts shall be maintained in respect of the grants released by the Government of India.
2. The accounts and the site of the project shall be open for inspection by the representatives of the Ministry of Culture at any time for verification.
3. If the project is not completed within a period of three years from the date of release of the 1st installment, no further grant shall be released to the organization and the claim will become time-barred.
4. The accounts of the organization will be open to audit at any time by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or his nominees at his discretion.
5. After the project has been completed, the organization shall submit, for closure of the case, the following documents within 6 months of the completion of the project;
a) In cases of projects involving new construction, a copy of the Completion certificate issued by the appropriate civic authority; and in cases of projects involving the purchase of ready-built space, a copy of the receipts of all the payments made to the builder/ seller, possession letter, and the registration/ ownership deed.
b) Project completion report from the Architect/CA in case of equipment grants.
c) Certificate from the Chartered Accountant that the organization has spent the full amount of its matching share.
6. A register of the permanent and semi-permanent assets acquired wholly or mainly out of the Government of India grant should be maintained in the prescribed form (FORM GFR 24 [See Rule 211 (ii) (d)). Every year, a copy of this register should be maintained by the grantee organization.
7. The grantee shall execute a bond in the prescribed form with two sureties, in favour of the President of India, providing therein that it will abide by the conditions of the grant. In the event of it failing to comply with the conditions of the grant or committing a breach of the bond, the grantee and the sureties shall individually or jointly refund to the President of India the entire amount of the grant, along with the interest thereon at the prevailing borrowing rate of the Government of India.
8. The first lien on the buildings and other assets acquired with Central assistance will vest with the President of India and neither the building nor the equipment shall be leased or mortgaged to other parties without the prior approval of the Government of India. Provided, however, that the lease of the studio theatre or other facilities, so acquired, to other parties for temporary use shall be excluded from this rule.
9. If at any stage, the Government is not satisfied with the proper utilization of the Government grant, or of the facilities created out of it, the Government may ask for the refund of the entire amount of the grant along with interest thereon at the prevailing lending rates of the Government of India.
10. The grantee organization will acknowledge the financial support of the Government of India, Ministry of Culture by appropriately displaying the name of the Ministry at the studio theatre/ cultural space developed with assistance under the Scheme.
11. The grantee organization will be solely responsible for any violation of the laws governing the construction of buildings or the use of land and buildings as may be applicable in the local area.
12. Such other conditions as may be imposed by the Government of India from time to time.
13. The Organizations shall mandatorily organize at least 02 activities (function, lecture, seminar, workshop, exhibition, etc.) in any of the schools/ educational institutions in their vicinity. A certificate to this effect from the Principal/Head of the Institution would be a mandatory requirement for the release of the 2nd installment.

Benefits
1. Maximum assistance under the scheme will be as under:
CITIES TYPE OF PROJECT LIMIT OF ASSISTANCE
Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai Projects involving new construction or the purchase of built-up space        ₹50 lakhs
Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai All other projects         ₹25 lakhs
All non-Metro cities, towns, or places All projects         ₹25 lakhs
2. All grants under the Scheme will be of a non-recurring nature. Recurring expenditures, if any, will be the responsibility of the grantee organization.
3. Assistance under the scheme to an organization will be restricted to a maximum of 60% of the approved estimated project cost, subject to the ceilings given above. In the case of projects in the North Eastern Region (NER) [comprises States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura] the maximum amount of Central financial assistance would be 90% of the total approved project cost subject to the maximum financial ceilings as mentioned above. The balance of the approved estimated project cost is to be incurred by the organization as its ‘matching share’.
Illustrations:- For projects involving new construction/ purchase of built-up space in metro cities.
Case 1: If the approved cost of the project is ₹100.00 lakhs (in metro cities), the maximum grant which may be sanctioned would be ₹50.00 lakhs, the matching share of the grantee organization being ₹50.00 lakhs.
Case 2: If the approved cost of the project is ₹70.00 lakhs (in metro cities), the maximum grant which may be sanctioned would be ₹42.00 lakhs, the matching share of the grantee organization being ₹28.00 lakhs. In the case of NER projects, the maximum grant which may be sanctioned would be ₹25.00 lakhs, the matching share of the grantee organization being ₹45.00 lakhs.
For projects involving new construction/ purchase of built-up space in non-metro cities and all projects under:
Case 3: If the approved cost of the project is ₹60.00 lakhs (in non-metro cities), the maximum grant which may be sanctioned would be ₹25.00 lakhs, the matching share of the grantee organization being ₹35.00 lakhs.
Case 4: If the approved cost of the project is ₹40.00 lakhs (in non-metro cities), the maximum grant which may be sanctioned would be ₹24.00 lakhs, the matching share of the grantee organization being ₹16.00 lakhs. However, in the case of NER, the maximum grant which may be sanctioned would be ₹25.00 lakhs, the matching share of the grantee organization being ₹15.00 lakhs.
4. Cost of the land (actual consideration paid by the recipient organization and not market value) and development charges borne by the organization shall be accounted as matching shares.
5. Expenditure already incurred by the organization on construction/ purchase/ development of land & building and purchase of fixtures and fittings within a period of one year from the date of application, shall also be accounted as matching share. The organization will submit accounts of expenditure incurred in this regard duly certified by a Chartered Accountant.
6. In case the cost of the project is enhanced subsequently, the liability of the Government of India will be restricted to the original sanctioned amount, and all the extra expenditure will be met by the grantee organization from its own resources.
7. Once the project proposal has been considered and approved for a certain amount, no subsequent requests for review and enhancement of project cost will usually be entertained.
8. An Undertaking is required to be submitted at the time of submission of the application by the applicant organization to the effect that the project will be completed within a period of three years from the date of release of 1st Installment.
Eligibility
Eligible Project: Grants will be given to projects for creating cultural spaces, which will include:
1. Conventional Cultural Spaces for Performing Arts:
Performance venues like Auditoria, Open-air Theatres, and Concert Halls.
Rehearsal halls for Theatre/ Music/ Dance.
Training Centres/ Schools for Theatre/ Music/ Dance etc.
2. Flexible Spaces, i.e., Studio Theatres, etc.: Non-proscenium rehearsal-cum-performance spaces, referred to as Studio Theatre or Experimental Theatre, that are characterized by the following special features:
A small theatre, with all the essential equipment for the performance of live music, dance, or theatre or combination of  these arts;
An unconventional space that cannot qualify as an auditorium in the traditional sense; therefore, the stage or performance area is not normally placed within a proscenium arch nor raised too high or separated from the audience by a clearly demarcated division.
A seating arrangement for spectators that is totally flexible and can be moved fluidly from one part of the space to another depending on the artistic aim of a particular performance; therefore, the seats/chairs must not be fixed in position.
A capacity that usually does not go over 100 to 200; therefore, such a space is often called a “little theatre” or “intimate theatre” because it allows for close-up and intimate viewing by spectators.
One or two adjoining green room(s)/dressing room(s) /makeup room(s) with toilet(s) for the performers, and a storage area; therefore, the entire unit, though minimal, functions as a theatre in every sense.
3. A project proposal to create an auditorium, a studio theatre, or other cultural space(s) may include an appropriate combination of any of the following components:
New construction or purchase of built-up space.
Renovation/ upgradation/ modernization/ extension/ alteration of an existing building/ space/ facility.
Remodeling of the interiors of an existing built-up space/cultural center.
Provision of facilities like electricals, air conditioning, acoustics, light and sound systems, and other items of equipment, such as musical instruments, costumes, audio/ video equipment, furniture, and stage material that may be required for a studio theatre, auditorium, rehearsal hall, classroom, etc.
Eligible Organizations:
1. The scheme covers all not-for-profit organizations that fulfill the following criteria:
The organization has a predominantly cultural profile, working primarily for the promotion of arts and culture in fields such as dance, drama, theatre, music, fine arts, Indology, and literature at least for a period of three years.
The organization is registered as a society under the Registration of Societies Act (XXI of 1860) or similar Acts, or as a Trust or as a Not-for-Profit Company, at least for a period of three years.
The organization is well-established and known to be doing meaningful work in the field of its activity and has gained a local, regional, or national identity.
Its charter is devoted to the preservation, propagation, and promotion of Indian arts and culture.
Government-sponsored bodies for promoting the performing arts.
University Departments or Centres dedicated to the performing arts.
Colleges are set up to promote the performing arts.
2. An organization that has been receiving salary grants for the last 3 years under the Ministry’s Scheme of “Financial Assistance to Professional Groups and Individuals Engaged for Specified Performing Arts Projects” will be deemed to have fulfilled all the above conditions.
3. A Government-sponsored body, University Department/Centre, or College dedicated to the performing arts may also be automatically eligible, provided its record over the preceding three years is satisfactory.
Note: An organization that has availed of a grant for its building project grant under the erstwhile Scheme of Building Grants to Cultural Organizations or under this scheme will not be eligible for a second grant under the Scheme before the completion of the project sanctioned earlier, except where such second grant is sought for a Studio Theatre (or Experimental Theatre) and the applicant organization has not defaulted on the ongoing sanctioned project.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: Applications are invited from voluntary cultural organizations and government-aided cultural organizations for assistance under Financial Assistance for Cultural Activities in Performing Arts for Building Grants including Studio Theatres. The application form may be downloaded from the Ministry of Culture website www.indiaculture.nic.in
Step 02: All applications should be addressed to The Director, West Zone Cultural Centre, (WZCC), Bagore Ki Haweli, Gaugaur Ghat, Udaipur, Rajasthan – 313001, and should be sent along with complete enclosures only by Speed Post or Registered Post.
Note 01: “Application under the Scheme of Building Grants, including Studio Theatres” should be clearly superscribed on the envelope. For any clarifications, Shri Sanjay Kumar, Deputy Secretary (P.Arts) may be contacted at Telephone No. 011-24642148 or email ID: sanjay.k65@nic.in
Note 02: Please read the scheme carefully before filling up the application form.
Note 03: The application should be recommended by any of the National Akademies or any other culture-related organization under the Government of India or by the concerned State Government /UT Administration, State Akademies.
Note 04: Any deficiency in the Application Form(s) intimated by the West Zone Cultural Centre to the applicant organization (s), may be furnished directly to WZCC itself.
Note 05: The Scheme is open throughout the year.
Note 06: A cut-off date for submission of application before convening the Expert Committee meeting will be notified through WZCC’s/Ministry’s websites: https://wzccindia.com and https://indiaculture.gov.in.
Note 07: All documents must accompany the application. Applications received without mandatory documents will not be considered and will be returned to the sender.
Evaluation Process:
1. All applications received by the West Zone Cultural Centre (WZCC), Udaipur will be scrutinized for completeness as per the requirements of the Scheme. Applications that are found incomplete will not be processed further for evaluation by the Expert Committee.
2. Before evaluation by the Expert Committee, wherever the Committee so desires, the applications may also be subjected to a physical verification by an organization under the Ministry of Culture or a group of experts or officer(s)of the Ministry of Culture.
3. Applications complete in all respects will be placed for consideration by the Expert Committee, which will be appointed by the Ministry of Culture and will meet from time to time during the year, depending on the number of applications received for the grant.
4. The Expert Committee will evaluate each project proposal on its merit, with specific reference to the following:
Whether the applicant organization is well established in the field and has got an identity of its own.
Whether the proposal is well-conceived
Whether the cost estimates are reasonable; and
Whether the organization has the capacity or has made arrangements to bring in their matching share to complete the project. (Where the applicant organization has already spent the full amount of the matching share, this requirement will be deemed to have been fulfilled).
5. The Expert Committee will include artists, representing different fields of performing arts and culture, and may also include an Architect, a Civil Engineer, and a Technical Expert in light/sound/stagecraft, as also concerned officials of the Ministry of Culture.
6. The recommendations of the Expert Committee will be placed before Hon’ble Culture Minister for consideration/approval.
Documents Required
The application should be accompanied by the following documents:
1. Project Report/Proposal which will include–
Organization’s profile containing a description of the organization, its strengths, achievements and year-wise details of its activities over the last 3 years.
Description of the project/proposal including its rationale/ justification.
Summary of the cost estimates (building/equipment/facilities).
Sources of finance/funds.
Time schedule for completion of project, and
Post completion- how the organization will manage the operation & maintenance of the facility created through the project and meet the recurring maintenance/ operational costs.
2. Copy of the Certificate of Registration under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, or other relevant Acts.
3. Copy of the Memorandum of Association (or Trust Deed) of the organization including Rules & Regulations, if any.
4. List of present members of the Board of Management/ Office Bearers/Trustees with the name & address of each member.
5. Copies of Annual Accounts for the last 3 financial years (duly certified/audited by a Chartered Accountant or Government Auditor).
6. Copy of the Title Deed (registered conveyance deed, gift deed, lease deed, etc.) in case of a proposal seeking financial assistance for new construction/purchase of built-up space/renovation/extension of the existing auditorium, showing:
Ownership of the land/building for the project in the name of the applicant organization and confirming that the property can be used for commercial, institutional, or educational purposes. In the case of a proposal to purchase built-up space, a copy of the Allotment letter/Agreement to Sale is submitted.
Cost of land/building. In case the cost of land/ building is not indicated in the title deed, relevant documents in support of the cost be submitted.
7. Copy of Building / Development Plans duly approved by the appropriate civic body/ local authority (Municipality, Panchayat, Development Authority, Improvement Trust, etc.).In case of a proposal to purchase built-up space, a copy of the layout plan and completion certificate duly approved/issued by a competent civic body/local authority is to be submitted.
8. Cost estimates (Building/Equipment), duly approved by a registered Architect who will also certify that:
The quantities are in conformity with the structural requirements of the project.
The rates are in conformity with the prevailing market rates, and
The cost estimates are reasonable.
9. Documentary evidence in support of the claim that the organization has secured or made arrangements to secure its matching share e.g. a bank statement, certificate of expenditure already incurred on the project (with a break-up, duly certified by a Chartered Accountant), loan sanction letter, letter of the State Government / Union Territory Administration/ Local Body, etc. sanctioning funds for the project.
10. Resolution (in the prescribed format) of the Board of Management/ Executive Board/ Governing Body of the organization authorizing a person to sign the application for grant, bond, etc. on behalf of the organization.
11. A Bond (in the prescribed format) for the assistance sought, on a stamp paper of prescribed denomination.
12. A Bank Authorization letter (in the prescribed format) showing ECS details of the Bank Account of the organization.
Notes:
The applicant organizations are free to attach any other document they may wish to submit in support of their proposal (e.g. certificate or recommendation letters from a national or state level Government body or Akademi, annual reports, press clippings/ reviews, award letters, affiliation letters, etc.).
Wherever the documents are in a regional language, an English or Hindi version must also be made available
Wherever copies of certain documents are being submitted, the same should be duly attested by a Gazetted Officer or Notary Public.
For proposals from Government-sponsored bodies, University Departments or Centers, and Colleges that are dedicated to the Performing Arts, the following documents are required to be submitted: -
i. List of present members of the Board of Management/Office Bearers/Trustees with the name & address of each member.
ii. Copies of Annual Accounts for the last 3 financial years (duly certified/audited by a Chartered Accountant or Government Auditor).
iii. Copy of the Title Deed (registered conveyance deed, gift deed, lease deed, etc.) in case of a proposal seeking financial assistance for new construction/purchase of built-up space/renovation/extension of the existing auditorium, showing:
Ownership of the land/building for the project in the name of the applicant organization and confirming that the property can be used for commercial, institutional, or educational purposes. In the case of a proposal to purchase built-up space, a copy of the Allotment letter/Agreement to Sale is submitted.
Cost of land/building. In case the cost of land/ building is not indicated in the title deed, relevant documents in support of the cost be submitted.
iv. Copy of Building / Development Plans duly approved by the appropriate civic body/ local authority (Municipality, Panchayat, Development Authority, Improvement Trust, etc.). In case of a proposal to purchase built-up space, a copy of the layout plan and completion certificate duly approved/issued by a competent civic body/local authority is to be submitted.
v. Cost estimates (Building/Equipment), duly approved by a registered Architect who will also certify that:
The quantities are in conformity with the structural requirements of the project.
The rates are in conformity with the prevailing market rates, and
The cost estimates are reasonable.
vi. Documentary evidence in support of the claim that the organization has secured or made arrangements to secure its matching share e.g. a bank statement, certificate of expenditure already incurred on the project (with a break-up, duly certified by Chartered Accountant), loan sanction letter, letter of the State Government / Union Territory Administration/ Local Body, etc. sanctioning funds for the project.
vii. Resolution (in the prescribed format) of the Board of Management/ Executive Board/ Governing Body of the organization authorizing a person to sign the application for grant, bond, etc. on behalf of the organization.
