Kala Samman Scheme
Goa
ArtArtistAwardCultureFinancial Assistance
Details
The scheme "Kala Samman Scheme" is implemented by the Art and Culture Department, Government of Goa, to grant financial assistance to eminent artists who are in indigent circumstances as a token of respect for their contribution to the field of Art and culture.

Objectives
To give financial support to the artists in indigent circumstances.
To grant monthly financial assistance to the artists who are in indigent conditions to meet their daily needs.
To recognize the contribution of artists in the field of Art and culture.

Benefits
Financial Assistance to the extent of ₹ 2,500/- per month every year.
However, the recipient of State Cultural Award shall be entitled for Financial Assistance to the extent of ₹ 3,200/- per month every year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artist who is in indigent condition.
The applicant should have attained the age of 60 years.
The applicant should have given a contribution to the field of Art and culture or should have worked in the field of Art and culture.
The income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 48,000/- per annum. (However, this clause shall not be applicable, where the applicant is the recipient of the ‘State Cultural Award').
NOTE: The number of cases to be sanctioned shall depend upon the availability of funds for every financial year.
Application Process
Offline
The Director of Art & Culture shall release an advertisement in local daily newspapers thereby inviting applications from eligible applicants.
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the Directorate Of Art & Culture, Government of Goa, 5th Floor, Shram Shakti Bhavan, Panaji, Patto, Panaji, Goa - 403001
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate or School Leaving Certificate) (Self-Attested). In absence of both these documents, copy of Aadhar card or baptism certificate certifying his birth date. 
Income certificate from competent authority.
Resume, giving details of work done in the field of Art & Culture.
References of two known persons or institutions working in respective field of Art & Culture.
