Trademark Reimbursement Scheme
Goa
BusinessEntrepreneurshipReimbursementStartupTrademark
Details
The scheme “Trademark Reimbursement Scheme” is a scheme by the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communications, Government of Goa, for the Startups of Goa. The scheme is a part of the Start-up Policy 2017. For start-ups that have successfully entered the production/service delivery phase, and want to trademark their company name and logo, 50% of the cost of trade-mark registration of their company name and logo will be reimbursed up to ₹ 25,000/-.

Benefits
Reimbursement
For start-ups that have successfully entered the production/service delivery phase, and want to trademark their company name and logo, 50% of the cost of trade-mark registration of their company name and logo will be reimbursed up to ₹ 25,000/-.
Number of Slots
The benefits of this scheme can be availed by up to 200 applicants per year who shall be selected by the SPC as per its guidelines.
Disbursal
Once the application is approved by the SPC, the approved amount shall be disbursed within 60 days from the date of approval.

NOTE: Under no circumstance shall the benefits under this scheme be considered an entitlement. The SPC shall reserve the sole right to accept/reject applications.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a startup certified by the Startup Promotion Cell (SPC).
The applicant should have a valid start-up certificate number.
The startup must have successfully registered its trademark.
NOTE: Only expenditures incurred after notification of Goa Start-up Policy 2017, being within the validity of this policy and paid for digitally would be considered for reimbursement under this scheme. If digital payments are not possible then it shall be up to the decision of SPC based on its due diligence to admit the expenditure.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Goa Startup Mission.
Step 2: Verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration/Signup Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form (Country, Name, Date of Birth, Address, PIN Code, Gender, etc.).
Step 4: Create a Login Name and a strong Password (Password can have special characters like @ # $ % ^ & + =).
Step 5: Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes.
Step 6: Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 7: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 8: Navigate to the online application form for the relevant scheme.
Step 9: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 10: Submit the application and note the application reference number for application tracking.

OR 

Step 1: Take a print of the proforma of the application form. Fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 2: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to SPC via Email at spc-dit.goa@gov.in

NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme at any time of the financial year but only within 6 months of incurring the relevant expenditure.

Notification
The applications received by the SPC shall be evaluated and approval or rejection shall be notified within 45 days from receipt of the application by the SPC.
Documents Required
1. Copy of Trademark Certificate*
2. The form and documents as mentioned in Annexure 1*
NOTE: The bank accounts of the Directors of the company should be linked to Aadhaar.
