Educational Assistance For Children Of Victims Of Crime
Kerala
ChildrenDependentEducationScholarshipSurvivorVictim
Details
The scheme “Educational Assistance for Children of Victims of Crime” was launched by the Department of Social Justice, Government of Kerala. In order to strengthen the victim support services in the State, the Government of Kerala has launched this scheme which provides educational assistance for children of survivors (victims) of crime. The dependents of survivors (victims) including children find it difficult to continue their studies due to financial constraints since the family has to meet the treatment expenses.
    Survivors (Victims) of crime are defined as those who suffer out of a crime and for no fault of their own. Being a survivor (victim) of a crime can be a shocking and harrowing experience. The trauma of victimization can have a devastating impact on crime survivors (victims) and their loved ones; especially children. The survivors (victims) and their families go through tremendous stress and suffer financially, socially, and psychologically.

Benefits
Under the scheme, the following financial assistance will be given to the eligible applicant:
Sl. No. Classes/Courses Amount of Assistance
1 Children studying in classes 1 to 5 ₹3000/- per year
2 Children studying in classes 6 to 10 ₹5000/- per year
3 Higher Secondary ₹7500/- per year
4 Graduate students ₹10,000/- per year
5 PG/M.Phil course students ₹15,000/- per year
Note: The amount will be transferred to the joint account of the child and the current parent.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native and resident of Kerala State.
The children/dependents of survivors (victims) of crime are eligible to apply under the scheme.
The combined annual income of the families should be less than ₹1,00,000/-.
The children pursuing a degree and higher education courses in government and aided institutions and admitted to merit seats in unaided institutions are eligible for financial assistance in courses from the degree level onwards.
Note: If granted for one year, the amount can be granted in subsequent years if the head of the school or college or the head of the newly joined institution certifies that the child will continue his education.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal
Step 02: On the home page, click on “One time Registration”
Step 03: Fill in the details like Name, Email ID & Mobile Number and click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: The applicant needs to enter the verification code received on the mobile number and click on ‘Verify’.
Step 05: Now, a form will open to create the new profile, fill in all the mandatory details and click on ‘Register’.
Login Application Process: 
Step 01: Once the registration process is completed, the applicant should visit SUNEETHI- Online Service Application Portal and click on “Citizen Login”.
Step 02: Enter the user name i.e. Mobile Number and Password and click on “Sign in”.
Step 03: Now, the applicant needs to update all their details i.e. Personal Information, Contact Details, Identity Cards & Bank Details by clicking on the 'Edit' button.
Step 04: Once the applicant updated their profile successfully, the schemes will appear on the left side of the screen.
Step 05: Select the scheme and click on the “Apply Now” button.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and click on the ‘Submit’ button.
Documents Required
Copy of Aadhaar card
Mobile number
Email id
Passport Size Photograph
Copy of Ration Card (Submit the page containing the name of the ration card holder and the page containing the family members together)
Certificate from the school attended by the student
Income Certificate
Certificate from Ward Councillor/Member or Panchayat/Nagar Sabha Chairperson/Chairman or Local Station House Officer
Copy of FIR
Copy of Bank Passbook- Joint bank account details of student and parent
Other documents, if any
