E-YUVA Scheme: BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows (for under graduate students)
Ministry Of Science And Technology
E-YUVAFellowResearchStipendStudentUnder Graduate
Details
The scheme “Empowering Youth for Undertaking Value Added Innovative Translational Research (E-YUVA)” is started by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) to promote a culture of applied research and need-oriented (societal or industry) entrepreneurial innovation among young students and researchers. The scheme provides funding support (through fellowship and research grant), technical and business mentoring, exposure to bio incubation model, orientation to an entrepreneurial culture, etc. to students at various levels including undergraduates, post-graduates, and post-doctoral.
The scheme provides support under the following two categories:
• BIRAC’s Innovation Fellows (for post graduates and above)
• BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows (for under graduate students)
BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows (for under graduate students):
BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows shall apply as a team and pursue their research work at their College/University labs and will also be allowed access to facilities at EYC and EYC Knowledge Partners as and when required. It will be mandatory for all the fellows to spend 3-4 weeks at EYC/EYC Knowledge Partner during their fellowship period.
Areas covered:
BIRAC encourages interdisciplinary proposals from any stream that can help the conversion of innovative ideas into biotech products and technologies in any of the above fields.
Nature of Proposals supported:
Proposal should:
be original
apply interdisciplinary knowledge
aim at the development of innovative Biotech products/technologies with societal/commercial potential
Number and Duration of Fellowship:
Each EYC will support up to 5 teams with upto 5 students each every year.
Fellowship is provided for a period of 12 months.
Expected Deliverable:
Create a culture of innovation at the Undergraduate student level in academic Institutions.
Capacity building at the UG level
Opportunity creation and access for Biotech Entrepreneurship facilitated by BIRAC

Benefits
BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows will receive a quarterly stipend and annual research grant as mentioned below:
Quarterly Stipend: INR 7,500/- per quarter per student of the team
Annual research grant: INR 2,50,000/- per team
EYCs, EYC knowledge partners, and BIRAC provide continuous mentoring support to fellows, including but not limited to Technical Mentoring, IP Support, Legal Support, Networking and Outreach, Training, Regulatory Advice, Business Mentoring, and Fundraising.
Note 01: Stipend is released quarterly to the student’s account, subject to the Mentor’s approval.
Note 02: The annual research grant is released in two installments (1st installment: 75%; 2nd installment: 25%) to the Institute’s account and is managed by the mentor/guide.
Eligibility
Indian students from Indian Institutes/colleges who are pursuing under graduation in any domain should apply as a team.
A team should comprise a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 5 Indian students from Indian Institutes/colleges pursuing under graduation in any domain.
Teams with students from different disciplines are encouraged.
One team can have students from the same/different colleges/institutes.
The team should be supported by a mentor/guide.
Note 01: BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows shall pursue their research work at their College/University labs and will also be allowed access to facilities at EYC and EYC Knowledge Partners as and when required.
Note 02: It will be mandatory for all the fellows to spend 3-4 weeks at EYC/EYC Knowledge Partner during their fellowship period.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: The applications for fellowships will be invited at the national level through advertisements in national dailies/website/ suitable magazines. 
Step 02: Online application submission needs to be done through the BIRAC website. (https://birac.nic.in/)
Step 03: Any one team member can create a user account on BIRAC’s website on behalf of the team followed by filling up of online application form. Click here for a step-by-step guide for the application
Note: In case, the team comprises students from different colleges/institutes, each team member student’s college/institute should have an E-Cell/Institutional Innovation Council/Incubation centre.
Selection Process:
Step 01: The Centre-wise list of applicants will be created and sent to E-cells/respective Centre for eligibility check and further evaluation.
Step 02: The shortlisted teams will be called for a presentation before a Technical Expert Committee along with BIRAC nominees at respective EYCs.
Step 03: The selected applicants will be called as BIRAC’s E-YUVA Fellows and will enter into an agreement with EYC.
Click here for E-YUVA Centers contact details
Documents Required
1. Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, PAN Card etc.
2. Educational Qualification Certificates
3. Other relevant documents
