E-Thela Sahaayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
BusinessEquipmentFinancial Assistance
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "E-Thela Sahaayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 19 June 2017. The main objective of the scheme to empower unorganized worker by providing financial assistance for e-thela. 

Benefits
Registered unorganized labor individuals will need to cover the expenses of ₹ 10,000 for scheme execution.
A grant of ₹ 30,000/- will be provided by the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Worker State Social Security Board.
The remaining sum will be extended to the Rikshaw/Auto Driver as a bank loan, with the beneficiary responsible for repaying it within a specified timeframe and at the interest rate determined by the bank.
The Board will only transfer its contribution to the beneficiary's account once all the necessary loan-related documents are submitted to the board.
Eligibility
Unorganized workers registered under the State Social Security Board and running hand carts are eligible for the scheme.
Registered workers must be between the ages of 18 and 50.
Commercial vehicle drivers must have a health certificate from the RTO.
Registered workers must be registered with the Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board for at least 90 days.
Each worker is only eligible for the scheme once.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do :  "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent Residence Certificate.
Copy of ration card.
Bank Account Details.
Receipt of e-Thela.
