National Solar Science Fellowship Programme
Ministry Of New and Renewable Energy
EngineerFellowshipResearchScientistSolar Science
Details
The “National Solar Science Fellowship Programme” of the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy was launched in February 2011. The programme is meant for an Indian Scientist desirous of working in the forefront areas of solar energy science, engineering, and technology with a focus on science, technology, and product development in collaboration with selected prestigious institutions in India. The aim of the National Solar Science Fellowship Programme is to provide a platform to top quality scientists and engineers in the area of solar energy research, to use and expand the resources available at the identified schools/ institutions in the country and abroad to address the complex problems of solar energy utilization for various end uses including power generation.
Fellowship Management Committee: A Fellowship Management Committee will be constituted by the Ministry under the Chairmanship of Secretary, MNRE with eminent scientists as members and scientist-in-charge (HRD) as convener. The Fellowship Management Committee will decide the areas of research to be undertaken under this programme. The Committee will also be recommending the institutions for taking part in the Fellowship Programme. The expert members of the Committee will have a duration of three years.
Number of Fellowships: The total number of Fellowships at any point of time will be limited to 10 only. However, only three fellows will be selected during the first year of the launch of the Programme.
Duration of Fellowship: Duration of the Fellowship will be initially for two years which may be extended for another three years on year to year basis depending upon the progress of the work done by the Fellow.
Commencement of Programme: The National Solar Science Fellows will form a community of researchers engaged in frontal areas of solar energy by intellectual curiosity, top-quality scholarship, and drive to understand and find solutions to the application of solar energy and find solutions to the energy security challenges facing the country today. Through this programme, they will be benefiting from all that the Government has to offer, and in turn, benefit the Government in finding solutions to the technological problems of solar energy and their application on the field leading to the visible impact of solar energy in the energy sector of the country.

Benefits
Each selected Fellow will receive a total annual grant of up to ₹32.00 lakhs comprising (i) emolument of up to ₹12.00 lakhs (ii) contingencies of up to ₹5.00 lakhs and (iii) research grant of up to ₹15.00 lakhs. This will be pro-rated for the duration of the tenure of the particular Fellow.
This grant will be released to the host institution for being granted to the Fellow.
The Fellow may also raise additional resources from other sources such as the host Institution, grant providers, grant-in-aid Institutions, etc. for the purpose of carrying out his/her research.
Note 01: On selection, the Fellow will be attached to one of the selected schools/institutions in consultation with the Fellow as well as the host institution.
Note 02: Selected Fellows shall commit to work at the host institution for the full tenure of the fellowship and shall submit a bond in this regard to the host institution.
Note 03: The Fellow must submit quarterly progress reports and a final technical report to the Fellowship Management Committee. The Fellowship Management Committee may from time to time, seek updates from the Fellow and provide inputs and guidance to the project of the Fellows so that the project remains relevant to the Government of India agenda and can be successfully completed on time.
Note 04: An annual conference of the Fellows will be held, where the Fellows will be expected to present their findings to the Fellowship Management Committee and other invitees and share knowledge and learning and discuss areas for further collaboration and practical application of their research.
Note 05: There would be a visible improvement in the quality of solar technology through the application of innovative solutions/technologies in the field arising out of the research under the programme.
Note 06: The resources in terms of manpower and infrastructural facilities available at various schools/ institutions of the country would be enhanced /strengthened.
Eligibility
The applicant should be Indian or of Indian origin.
The programme is open to all Scientists working in the field of solar energy sciences, engineering, and technology including those currently employed in the Government of India/ State Government/Public Institutions and those who are not currently associated with any public institution but are working in the area and eager to pursue specific research that is beneficial to the Government of India.
The applicant should possess a doctorate or equivalent in the field of solar sciences/solar engineering, with an outstanding track record and proven leadership qualities in the area of solar energy research with experience of at least ten years including the period spent while undertaking research work for Ph.D.
M.Tech. or M.S degree holder with good published work and lab/industry experience will also be considered as a special case provided Fellowship Management Committee feels that the proposal submitted by such candidates is worth considering.
The applicant should have an appropriate background in academics and experience in R&D in the area of solar energy and other related areas that are directly or indirectly involved in solar sciences, engineering, and technology.
There will be no age bar for the Programme.
Note 01: The Fellowship Management Committee will have the right to suitably amend the eligibility criteria.
Note 02: A comprehensive proposal should be submitted by all the candidates for the National Solar Science Fellowship for the consideration of the Fellowship Management Committee.
Application Process
Offline
Step 01: Applications from talented scientists having proven records in any field of solar science, or engineering will be invited through open advertisement. 
Step 02: The applicants shall submit their applications in the prescribed Proforma (Annexure-II).
Step 03: The application should be as per the instructions for filling up the Proforma given in the Guidelines.
Step 04: The applicant will attach an R&D proposal with his/her application in the R&D thrust areas identified by the Fellowship Management Committee of the MNRE with an emphasis on the potential impact of a proposed research project on solving problems encountered in solar energy technology and systems.
Step 05: A comprehensive proposal should be submitted by all the candidates for the National Solar Science Fellowship for the consideration of the Fellowship Management Committee.
Note 01: The Fellowship Management Committee headed by Secretary, MNRE/Eminent Scientist with other eminent scientists as members will scrutinize the applications including Eminent Scientist the research project, and select up to ten National Solar Science Fellows taking into account the Guidelines and as per the prescribed procedure. The Committee will be approved by the MNRE and have a tenure of three years.
Note 02: Every selected Fellow will be attached to one of the selected schools/institutions and will have a tenure ranging from 1-3 years depending upon the project chosen and can be extended for further two years based upon the progress of the project.
Documents Required
Identity proof
Certificates of Educational Qualifications
Caste Certificate
Experience certificate in R&D
The R&D proposal
Details of any awards/recognition received in the subject area at the national/international level
Details of films/audio-visuals produced
Details of Scientific/technical papers published in the relevant subject area
Any other document (If applicable)
