Award Of Scholarships To Young Artists In Different Cultural Fields
Ministry Of Culture
Advanced TrainingCultureDanceMusicScholarshipYoung Artists
Details
The scheme “Award of Scholarships to Young Artists in Different Cultural Fields” was launched by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. This scheme seeks to give assistance to young artists of outstanding promise for advanced training within India in the field of Indian Classical Music, Indian Classical Dance, Theatre, Mime, Visual art, Folk, Traditional and Indigenous Arts, and Light Classical Music.
Subjects/Fields in which Scholarships can be awarded:
Indian Classical Music - Classical Hindustani Music (Vocal and Instrumental), Classical Carnatic Music (Vocal & Instrumental, etc.)
Indian Classical Dance/ Dance Music - Bharatnatyam, Kathak, Kuchipudi, Kathakali, Mohiniattam, Odissi Dance/ Music, Manipuri Dance/ Music, Thangta, Gaudiya Nritya, Chhau Dance/ Music, Sattriya dance.
Theatre - Any specialized aspect of theatre art, including acting, direction, etc., but excluding playwriting and research. Mime.
Visual Arts - Graphics, Sculpture, Painting, Creative Photography, Pottery & Ceramics, etc.
Folk, Traditional, and Indigenous Arts - Puppetry, Folk Theatre, Folk dances, Folk Songs, Folk Music, etc.
Light Classical Music - 
     a) Thumri, Dadra, Tappa, Qawali, Ghazal,
     b) Light Classical music based on Carnatic Style, etc.
     c) Rabindra Sangeet, Nazrul Geeti, Atulprasad.
Terms of Scholarship:
The nature of training will be determined in each case after taking into consideration the previous training and background of the scholar. Normally, it will be in the nature of advanced training under a Guru/Master or in a recognized institution.
The Scholar will be required to undergo a rigorous training. Such training will include minimum of three hours a day for practice alone apart from the time spent for acquiring knowledge of the theory of the subject/field concerned and also an appreciation of the related disciplines.

Benefits
Under the scheme, total number of scholarships is 400.
Each scholar will be paid ₹5000/- per month for a period of two years to cover his/ her living expenses on travel, books, art material, or other equipment and tuition or training charges, if any.
The scholarships are provided in the field of Indian Classical Music, Classical Dances, Light Classical Music, Theatre, Visual Arts, and Folk/ Traditional and Indigenous Arts.
Eligibility
Candidates should be Indian Nationals.
Candidates should have adequate general education to pursue their training effectively.
Candidates must give evidence of their desire to make the pursuit of their training effectively.
As the scholarships are meant for advanced training and not for beginners, candidates must have already acquired a degree of proficiency in the chosen field.
The candidate should have undergone a minimum of 5 years of training with their Guru/Institutes. The Certificate duly signed by the present Guru / Institute and former Guru/ Institute (if any) should be submitted along with the application.
Candidates should have adequate knowledge of the connected arts/ disciplines.
The candidate's age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 25 years as of 1st April of the year in which the application is being made. Age relaxation is not permissible.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: An advertisement inviting applications will be issued by the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT), New Delhi.
Step 02: Applicants are required to submit online applications on the CSMS Portal which is made available on the website of the Ministry of Culture & CCRT.
Step 03: The applicant needs to visit the official website and click on “MOC Schemes Application”.
Step 04: Click on Registration and fill up the registration form.
Step 05: Get Username and Password for Login
Step 06: Go to the current scheme status and click on the appropriate scheme.
Step 07: Fill up the form and submit it.
Post-Application Process:
Step 01: The shortlisted applicants after the process of scrutiny which is done through the software made available by NIC on the CSMS portal, are called for an Interview/Test before the Expert Committee constituted by the Ministry of Culture.
Step 02: Candidates will be required to appear for an interview/ performance before the expert Committee. The date, time, and venue of the interview/performance will be intimated to the candidates through e-mail given by the candidates in their online application. The selection will be made purely on merit.
Step 03: The list of recommended candidates is sent to the Ministry of Culture for approval and after approval, the selected candidates are informed about the selection by sending an Award letter by post as well as by email, and the list of selected candidates is also uploaded on CCRT’s website and Ministry of Culture respectively.
Note 01: Any change in the address may be given to the Ministry in writing. While doing so subject/field of training, File No. (if any) should invariably be given.
Note 02: Separate online applications should be submitted for each field if the candidate wants to apply for more than one field.
Contact Details:
Section officer (S&F Section), Room No. 211, 2nd Floor, Puratatva Bhawan, D Block, GPO Complex, INA, New Delhi-110023 at Phone No. 011-24642157 or through E-Mail: scholar-culture[at]nic[dot]in
Director, Centre for Cultural Resources and Training, 15-A, Sector-7, Dwarka, New Delhi-110075 at Phone Numbers: 011- 25309300 extns. 319, 331, 337, and 338; 011-25074256, 25309395, 25309338 and 25088638. or through e-mail: dir[dot]ccrt[at]nic[dot]in
Documents Required
Identity Proof
One self-attested copy of Education Qualifications (Degrees, Diplomas, etc.), experiences, etc.
One self-attested copy of the Matriculation or equivalent certificate or other admissible evidence of age.
One Passport size recent photograph.
Bank account details
Caste certificate (If applicable)
Residence proof (If applicable)
In the case of candidates applying for scholarships in the field of Painting, Sculpture, and Applied Arts, they are required to come with self-attested copies of photographs of the Original works. The minimum qualification for Visual Arts is BFA or equivalent.
As the scholarships are awarded for advanced training, the candidates should have undergone a minimum of 5 years of training with their Gurus/Institutes. The certificates to this effect duly signed by the present Guru/ Institute and former Guru/ Institute (if any) should be submitted along with the application.
