Chief Ministergi Artistesinggi Tengbang (CMAT) - Scheme For Award To Distinguished Artistes
Manipur
ArtistAwardFinancial Assistance
Details
The scheme "Chief Ministergi Artistesinggi Tengbang (CMAT) - Scheme for Award to Distinguished Artistes" is a scheme by the Dept. of Art & Culture, Govt. of Manipur, to encourage and felicitate the artistes (in the field of culture) belonging to different fields for their achievements such as winning National Awards namely Padma Awards, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Sahitya Akademi, Lalit Kala Akademi Awards including Young Awardees, National Film Award winners and on winning any national level competitions, and International Awards in the field of Art & Culture.

Benefits
Individual (Young Awardees / Competition Winner) – 15 numbers @ ₹ 50,000/- each (once a year)
Individual (Senior Awardees) – 15 numbers @ ₹ 1,00,000/- each (once in a year) 
Group (Competition Winner – Young) – 5 numbers @ ₹ 1,00,000/- each (once a year)
Group (Competition Winner – Senior) – 5 numbers @ ₹ 1,50,000/- each (once a year)
The award money will be released to the personal account of the beneficiary/group through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a domicile of the state of Manipur.
The applicant should be National Award winners viz Padma Awardee, Sangeet Natak Akademi Awardee, Sahitya Akademi Awardee, Lalit Kala Akademi Awardee, and Zonal Cultural Centre’s Award including Young Awardees, National Level Competition, and National Film Awards for individuals and groups.
The award winners whose age is below 40 will come under the Young / Junior category and those above 40 will come under Senior Category.

Note 1: The scheme will cover those awards announced or received during the current financial year and current calendar year.
Note 2: The selection of artistes for Awards / Felicitation will be done by a Screening / Selection Committee constituted by the Government. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The applicant should take print of the format of the application form
 provided in the scheme guidelines.
Step 2: The applicant should fill in all the mandatory fields and attach all the (self-attested) required documents.
Step 3: The duly filled-in application form should be submitted to the Directorate of Art & Culture, Government of Manipur office at Palace Compound, Imphal along with a cover letter addressed to the Director (Art & Culture) latest by a month before the travel schedule.

Note: The Department of Art & Culture, Government of Manipur reserves the right to reject or cancel any application without assigning any reason.
Documents Required
Passport Sized Photograph
Residential/Domicile Certificate of the State of Manipur
Aadhaar Card
Details of the Bank Account
Bio Data with Relevant Supporting Documents/Certificate
Proof of Age / Date of Birth
Proof of Winning a National Award viz Padma Awardee, Sangeet Natak Akademi Awardee, Sahitya Akademi Awardee, Lalit Kala Akademi Awardee, and Zonal Cultural Centre’s Award including Young Awardees, National Level Competition, and National Film Awards.
