Special Incentive Allowance Scheme
Goa
AllowanceBusinessCompanyEmployeeIncentive
Details
Launched in 2018, the "Special Incentive Allowance Scheme" is one of the "Information Technology Policy Schemes" by the Department of Information Technology, Government of Goa. New and Existing Units would be provided with the allowance once at the end of every three year period. The scheme has been framed as a part of Goa's IT Policy that envisages Goa as an aspirational geographical and human resource base for IT Units and a preferred destination for their investment and expansion.

Benefits
1. The Units would be provided with the following special incentive allowance once at the end of every three year period:
Smaller Business Units: ₹ 50,00,000
Other Business Units: ₹ 1,00,00,000
Mega Business Units: ₹ 2,00,00,000
NOTE 1: The benefits under this scheme are subject to budgetary allocation. No Promissory Estoppel shall be applicable if benefits are discontinued in case the allocation is exceeded.
NOTE 2: Only expenditure incurred during the operation of the policy will be considered.
Eligibility
1. The applicant should be a New/Existing Unit.
2. The applicant should have their operations in Goa.
3. The applicant should be one of the following:
Proprietorship Firm
Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Public Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Registered Partnership Firm incorporated under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (or equivalent)
Limited Liability Partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (or equivalent)
4. The bank accounts of the unit and/or its partner(s)/director(s) should be linked to Aadhaar.
5. The number of employees would be calculated based number of employees on the rolls (for more than 12 months) during the year.
6. In case of expansion, new employees should be on the rolls for at least one year prior to the date of application.
7. The minimum criteria to be met by the units to avail this special incentive allowance is as follows:
Criteria: Annual Growth;   Unit: >= 20% pa for a period of 3 years
Criteria: Employee Head Count (Goans or Goan Graduates);   Unit: >= 75% of the total employees
Criteria: Female Employees;   Unit: >= 60%
Criteria: Employee Certification (Policy section 6.4.1);   Unit: 100% of the Goans
Criteria: Quality Certification by the company (Policy section 6.2.10);   Unit: At least one during the Policy period
NOTE: Units will be subject to evaluation at the end of Fiscal Year to verify eligibility for continuing to receive subsidy under this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Web Portal of Goa Online. At the top right corner, click "Register".
Step 2: On the next page, verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form. Create a Login Name and a strong Password. Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 4: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 5: In the top ribbon, click on "Services", then click on "IT Services". Click on the name of the scheme. You will be taken to the application form for the scheme. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: Submit the application. A unique registration number will be generated. Note this number for future reference.
NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme on a quarterly/bi-annually/annual basis after incurring the relevant expenditure. 

Disbursement Timeline
Incentive Application Receipt: D
Application scrutiny as per checklist: D+30days
Application approval by the Empowered Committee: D+60 days
Issue of Regret Letter/Sanction Orders and Disbursement: D+90 days
Documents Required
1. Copy of Incorporation Certificate.
2. Copy of new unit registration document/certificate.
3. Copies of PAN, Aadhaar, and GST TIN.
4. Memorandum and Articles of Association.
5. Copy of the first bill generated showing the date of commencement of operations or other relevant document.
6. Details of employees, including the percentage of employees of Goan origin and the number of female employees.
7. Income Tax Returns of the Unit for all years covered in the period claimed in this application showing net income and annual growth rate.
8. Certified copy from the auditor verifying the reported income for the period claimed in this application.
9. Copies of employee certifications clearly showing the name of the employee, name of the issuing authority, type of certification, date obtained, and validity period if any.
10. Copies of quality certification(s) completed by the unit clearly showing the name of the unit, name of the issuing authority, name/level of certification, date obtained, and validity period if any.
12. Udyog Aadhaar.
