Goa Welfare / Pension Scheme For Seafarers
Goa
Financial AssistancePensionRetirementSeafarerSeamanSenior CitizenSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme "Goa Welfare / Pension Scheme for Seafarers" by the Home Department, Government of Goa, provides financial assistance in the form of a Gross Pension of ₹ 2,500/- per month to the beneficiaries. The applicant should be a retired seaman. The age of the retired seaman should be 60 years or above.

Benefits
Financial Assistance in the form of a Gross Pension of ₹ 2,500/- per month.
NOTE: If the applicant is in receipt of a monthly pension under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme / Griha Aadhaar Scheme / Kala Samman Scheme, the amount whereof is less than the Gross Pension available under these schemes, then he/she will be entitled to receive only the difference, between the amounts of Gross Pension available under the above schemes.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Citizen of India.
The applicant should be a retired seaman, i.e. seaman who was employed on board the ship and retired.
The seaman invalidated from sea service on medical grounds before retirement are also eligible.
The age of the retired seaman should be 60 years or above.
The widow of a deceased Seaman can also be eligible on compassionate grounds, provided that she has been a resident of Goa for 15 years and that her annual income from all sources does not exceed ₹ 1,20,000/-.
The beneficiary should be a bonafide resident of Goa by birth and if not, the said birth should have been registered in Goa or at least either of the parents of the beneficiary should have been born in Goa.
The retired seaman should have rendered a total of 120 months of actual service on board the ship. A break in service up to the period of 6 months shall be condoned while computing the total period of service.
NOTE: The limit of 120 months of actual service shall not apply to beneficiaries invalidated from sea service on medical grounds before retirement and the widow of a deceased beneficiary on compassionate grounds.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit the NRI Commission.
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Documents Required
Continuous Discharge Certificate (CDC) / Seafarers Identity Document showing the record of service issued by the competent authority.
Birth Certificate issued by the competent authority or School Leaving Certificate in proof of age of the Seaman / deceased Seaman.
Medical Certificate issued by the competent authority in proof of invalidation from sea service on medical grounds.
Death Certificate issued by the competent authority in proof of death of seamen (applicable for widows only).
Marriage Certificate issued by the competent authority in proof of being spouse of the deceased seamen (applicable for widows only). 
Income Certificate issued by the competent authority.
Residence Certificate issued by the competent authority.
Life Certificate issued by any Gazetted Officer (The Life Certificate should be submitted along with the application to the
Office of the Commissioner for NRI Affairs, and after that every year before 31st March to the bank through which the beneficiary shall draw the pension).
Affidavit on ₹ 50/- Non-Judicial Stamp Paper duly sworn before the competent authority.
Voter Identity Card issued by the competent authority.
Aadhaar Card issued by the competent authority.
