Cancer Suraksha Scheme
Kerala
BPLCancerFree TreatmentHospitalPatients
Details
The Government of Kerala launched the “Cancer Suraksha Scheme” on 1st November 2008 for children below the age of 18 who suffer from cancer and belong to such families which are too poor to afford treatment. This scheme was launched under Kerala Social Security Mission. Those patients found eligible would be registered under the scheme and a Patient Card would be issued. Registered patients would be provided treatment free of cost at the designated hospitals. On further verification, if it is found that any registered patient is ineligible for assistance, the assistance would be stopped forthwith.
             Cancer, the killer disease, was once considered incurable. However, advances in medical science have helped conquer the disease to a very large extent. It is scientifically proven that pediatric cases of cancer are largely curable if treated early. Recognizing the urgent need to extend financial support to cancer victims from families, who are too poor to afford treatment, the Government of Kerala launched this scheme.
            To provide cashless transactions funds have already been deposited with the superintendents of the hospitals. The patients who are eligible for assistance would receive the benefit from these hospitals directly without approaching the Mission.
Hospitals Covered under the Scheme:
Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram
Government Medical College Thiruvananthapuram
Sree AvitamThirunal (SAT) Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram
Government Medical College Alapuzha
Government Medical College Kottayam
Government Medical College Thrissur
Government Medical College Kozhikode
Co-operative Medical College Pariyaram, Kannur
Malabar Cancer Centre, Thalassery, Kannur
Government General Hospital, Ernakulam
Institute of Maternal and Child Health, Kozhikode
Govt. Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam

Benefits
Under this scheme, children under 18 years would be given free treatment for cancer through designated Government hospitals in the state.
The entire cost of treatment, including the cost of investigations, would be borne by the hospitals through the funds provided by the Mission.
The ceiling of expenditure per child would be initially ₹50,000/-.
Note: The hospital can incur additional expenditure, based on the report of the committee comprising the Oncologist/treating doctor, the Head of the Radiology Department, and the Superintendent, subject to ratification by the Mission.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Kerala State and scheme is applicable only to patients from Kerala.
Cancer patients up to the age of 18 years in the Below Poverty Line (BPL) groups are eligible to be included in this scheme.
Cancer patients should belong to families which are too poor to afford treatment.
To be included in this scheme a confirmed diagnosis of cancer is a must.
Those patients who are yet to complete 18 years of age and need treatment are eligible for the benefit for one more year.
Application Process
Offline
To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant may contact the following authorities:
1. Scheme counselor who is appointed at selected hospitals/covered hospitals under this scheme.
2. Concerned District Social Justice Officer.
Documents Required
1. Copy of Aadhaar/ Proof of Identity of patient
2. Proof of age of the patient
3. Copy of BPL card
4. Copy of Ration card
5. Residence certificate
6. Passport-size photograph
7. Proof/report confirming the diagnosis of cancer
8. Registered Patient Card under the scheme
