Post-Matric Scholarship for SC students
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
EducationScholarshipStudent Finance
Details
Objective
The objective of the scheme is to appreciably increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio of SC students in higher education with a focus on those from the poorest households, by providing financial assistance at post-matriculation or post-secondary stage to enable them to complete their education
Scope
These scholarships are available for studies in India only and the awardees are selected by the State Government/Union Territory to which the applicant actually belongs (i.e. the State/UT in which permanently settled or domiciled, as per the terms of domicile decided by the State).
This is applicable to all the students who are currently beneficiaries of the scheme as well as fresh admissions.


The Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC Students categorizes courses into four groups:
Group I: Degree and Post Graduate level courses in Medicine, Engineering, Technology, Planning, Architecture, Design, Fashion Technology, Agriculture, Veterinary Sciences, Management, Business Finance/Administration, Computer Science/Applications Commercial Pilot License (including helicopter pilot and multiengine rating) course
Group II: Post Graduate Diploma courses in various branches of Management & medicine C.A/I.C.W.A. /C.S./I.C.F.A. etc.
Group III: Graduate and Post Graduate courses not covered under Group 1 & Group 2 B.A / B.Sc. / B.Com etc. M.A/ M.Sc. / M.Com etc.
Group IV: Management & Catering, Travel/Tourism/Hospitality Management, Interior Decoration, Nutrition & Dietetics, Commercial Art, Financial Services (e.g. Banking, Insurance, Taxation etc.).

Benefits

Category Of Courses Hostellers (Yearly) Day Scholars ( Yearly)
Group-1 Degree and post Graduate Level professional courses ₹ 13,000/- ₹ 7,000/-
Group-2: Other Professional Courses leading to Degree, Diploma, Certificate ₹ 9,500/- ₹ 6,500/-
Group-3 Graduate and Post Graduate courses not covered under group 1 & group II ₹ 6,000/- ₹ 3,000/-
Group-4: All post matriculation (Post Class X level non-degree courses.  ₹ 4,000/- ₹ 2,500/-

Note 1. Ten percent extra allowances shall be provided for Divyang students.
Note 2. Students pursuing C.A. /I.C.W.A. /C.S. /I.C.F.A. shall be treated as day scholars for the purpose of academic allowance. Students studying through correspondence/online courses shall not be eligible for academic allowance.
Eligibility
The scholarships are open to Indian nationals only.
Only candidates who belong to Scheduled Castes and have passed the Matriculation, Higher Secondary, or a higher examination of a recognized university or Board of Secondary Education are eligible.
Scholarships will be paid to students whose parents' or guardians' income from all sources does not exceed ₹ 2,50,000/- per annum.
The ceiling on age limit for admission as a regular student in different classes should be decided by the concerned institutions.
Candidates who are studying in the same stage of education in a different subject after passing one stage of education are not eligible.
Students who pursue their studies through correspondence or online courses are also eligible.
All children of any parent or guardian are entitled to receive benefits of the scheme.
A scholarship holder under this scheme will not hold any other scholarship or stipend.
Application Process
Online
Registration for New Applicant
Open the official NSP website and click on New Registration under Applicant Corner. 
Read the Instruction /Guidelines, provide the under taking by click on Check box and click on Continue.
Start the registration by Mobile OTP. 
Required document (Aadhaar Details and Bank Account Details) 
Registered Applicant 
Open the official NSP website and click on Fresh Application under Applicant Corner
Login with application ID & password.
Select the Scholarship. 
Fill out the applicant form.
Upload the required documents.
Submit.
Documents Required
Photograph.
Academic Certificate.
Caste Certificate.
Income proof.
Domicile Certificate. 
Bank Account Details.
Aadhaar Card. 
