Salary Subsidy Scheme
Goa
CompanyEmployeeFresherGrantSalary
Details
Launched in 2018, the "Salary Subsidy Scheme" is one of the "Information Technology Policy Schemes" by the Department of Information Technology, Government of Goa. The objective and the scope of this scheme is to provide a Salary Subsidy to the eligible Information Technology Units in the State of Goa. The subsidy would be provided as a matching grant to the salary paid to Fresher up to ₹10,000 per Fresher per month. All the New and Existing Units having their operations in Goa are eligible. The scheme has been framed as a part of Goa's IT Policy that envisages Goa as an aspirational geographical and human resource base for IT Units and a preferred destination for their investment and expansion.

Benefits
The subsidy would be provided as a matching grant to the salary paid to Freshers up to ₹ 10,000 per Fresher per month (₹ 12,500 for Female Freshers) for 2 continuous years of operation post the notification of this policy. 
NOTE 1: The benefits under this scheme are subject to budgetary allocation. No Promissory Estoppel shall be applicable if benefits are discontinued in case the allocation is exceeded.
NOTE 2: The subsidy will be provided only for the Freshers recruited during the operation period of the Policy. 
NOTE 3: The units will be subject to evaluation at the end of the Fiscal year to verify eligibility to continue receiving benefits under the scheme.
Eligibility
1. All the new and existing units must have their operations in Goa.
2. The applicant must be one of the below:
Proprietorship Firm
Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Public Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 (or equivalent)
Registered Partnership Firm incorporated under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (or equivalent)
Limited Liability Partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 (or equivalent)
3. The bank accounts of the unit and/or its partner(s)/director(s) should be linked to Aadhaar.
4. The bank accounts of Freshers should be linked to Aadhaar.
5. The subsidy is valid for Freshers who have been employed for a minimum period of one year.
6. For the purpose of implementation of this incentive, individuals who have worked for more than two years before pursuing post-graduation are not considered freshers. 
7. In instances where the individual has less than two years of experience prior to the Post graduation, the individual is considered as a fresher, however, the time duration for the individual is considered as a fresher is calculated on a prorate basis.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit the Official Web Portal of Goa Online. At the top right corner, click "Register".
Step 2: On the next page, verify your Email ID and Mobile Number using OTP. You will be redirected to the Registration Page.
Step 3: On the Registration Page, fill in all the mandatory fields of the registration form. Create a Login Name and a strong Password. Carefully read the Declaration and the Terms & Conditions, and tick the checkboxes. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Register/Signup".
Step 4: Login to the website using your Login Name and Password. Fill in the Captcha Code, and click "Login".
Step 5: In the top ribbon, click on "Services", then click on "IT Services". Click on the name of the scheme. You will be taken to the application form for the scheme. Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 6: Submit the application. A unique registration number will be generated. Note this number for future reference.
NOTE: The applicant can apply for this scheme on a quarterly/bi-annually/annual basis after incurring the relevant expenditure. 

Disbursement Timeline
Incentive Application Receipt: D
Application scrutiny as per checklist: D+30days
Application approval by the Empowered Committee: D+60 days
Issue of Regret Letter/Sanction Orders and Disbursement: D+90 days
Documents Required
1. Copy of Incorporation Certificate
2. Copy of new unit registration document/certificate
3. Copies of PAN, Aadhaar and GST TIN
4. Memorandum and Articles of Association
5. Copy of first bill generated showing the date of commencement of operations or other relevant document
6. Proof of employment for the Freshers (copy of PF contribution or salary slip or other relevant document)
7. Copies of Aadhaar cards of Freshers being claimed under this subsidy
8. Other relevant documents (if any)
9. Udyog Aadhaar.
