Babu Jagjivan Ram Chhatrawas Yojna
Ministry Of Social Justice and Empowerment
HostelStudent
Details
Background:
This scheme for the construction of hostels is one of the means to enable and encourage students belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) to attain quality education. Such hostels are immensely beneficial to the students hailing from rural and remote areas of the country. While the scheme of construction of hostels for SC girls is in operation from the Third Five Year Plan (1961-66), the same for boys was started with effect from the year 1989-90.

Objectives of The Scheme:
The primary objective of the revised scheme is to attract implementing agencies for undertaking the construction of hostels, especially for SC girls, towards the broader vision of containment and reduction of their dropout rate. The other objectives are:
(i) having a girls/boys hostel with a capacity of 100 seats, in every block headquarters of low literacy districts not having one as of now, by way of priority.
(ii) repairing and proper maintenance of hostels, and 
(iii) having an effective mechanism for monitoring, review, etc.

Implementing Agencies:
The scheme is implemented through the State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, and Central & State Universities/ Institutions.

Benefits
FUNDING PATTERN

For Girls Hostels: 
100% central assistance would be provided to the State Governments/ UT Administrations and Central & State Universities/ Institutions, as per the cost norms prescribed in para-8 here-in-above. 

For Boys Hostels:
(a) 50% central assistance would be provided to State Governments on a matching share basis.
(b) 100% central assistance to UT Administrations.
(c) 90% central assistance to Central Universities/Institutions. The remaining 10% cost is to be borne by the Central University/ Institution concerned.
(d) For State Universities/ Institutions, the central assistance would be 45%. The remaining 55% cost is to be borne by the State University/Institution and the State Government/UT Administration concerned in the ratio of 10:45.

Note: In case the State Governments/ UT Administrations concerned do not contribute their expected share of 45% to the State Universities/ Institutions as prescribed above, the share of the former will also have to be borne by the Universities/Institutions, by raising their contribution to 55%.
Eligibility
Eligibility for the Hostels:
1.  While sanctioning hostels, priority may be given to areas having a concentration of SC population of 15% and more, and without adequate hostel facilities for SC students. Preference will be given to integrated hostels (part of established educational institutions) over stand-alone hostels.
2.  State Governments, while selecting schools for the construction of hostels will give priority to top-performing Government schools that not having any hostels at present.
3.  In the case of girls, the hostels will be located in areas having low SC female literacy. The girl's hostels will be constructed in close vicinity of the educational institution.
4.  The focus will be given to the construction of hostels for middle and higher secondary levels of education. However, hostels can also be constructed under the scheme for college and university levels of education.
5.  The construction of boundary walls, two rooms set quarter for hostel wardens, and one room set for Chowkidars/ Lady Guards would be an integral part of the scheme.

Eligibility for the Implementing Agencies:
The scheme is implemented through the State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, and Central & State Universities/ Institutions.
Application Process
Offline
The hard copy of the proposal (as per Annexure-II) for seeking Central Assistance under the Scheme, Babu Jagjivan Ram ChhatrawasYojna (BJRCY) should be sent to this address (along with the details of the hostel as per Annexure-I) by the authorized representative of the implementing agency.

The Joint Secretary (Backward Classes)
Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment
Government of India,
Shastri Bhavan,
New Delhi-110001
Documents Required
List of Documents to be submitted along with the proposal for the release of 2nd installment:
1 Utilization Certificate as per format mentioned in the sanction letter 
2 Audit reports since 1st installment was released (in case of Central/StateUniversity/institution)
3 Balance sheet since the 1st installment released (in case of Central/StateUniversity/institution)
4 Income expenditure statement since the 1st installment released (in case of central/State University/Institution)
5 Receipt of payment since the 1st installment released (in case of central/State University/Institution)
6 Bank Statement since the release of 1st installment
7 Details of interest earned on 1st installment released for the project
8 Status of the utilization of matching share by the implementing agency, if any
9 Site inspection report
10 Colour Photographs of the project site
