AFFDF-Financial Assistance For Treatment Of Serious Diseases To Non Pensioner Ex-Servicemen (All Ranks)/Widows
Ministry Of Defence
Ex-ServicemenSerious Disease TreatmentWidow Of Ex-Servicemen
Details
A scheme to provide financial assistance to a non-pensioner Ex-Servicemen of all ranks and widows to meet medical expenses related to treatment of approved serious diseases like cancer, renal failure, knee replacement and heart surgery.

Expenditure must be incurred at a approved govt hospital at the rates applicable under CGHS / ECHS.

List of the serious diseases are covered under this scheme

Angiography & Angioplasty
CABG. (l) Dialysis
Open heart surgery
Valve replacement
Pacemaker Implant
Cerebral stroke
Prostrate surgery
Joint replacement
Renal failure
Cancer

Treatment of other Diseases
In case the treatment of a serious disease which is not listed , such application will be referred to Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS) for comment/recommendation to consider it for financial assistance for treatment of that disease, to ESM under this scheme.

Benefits
Financial assistance for treatment of the approved serious diseases  to non-pensioner Ex-Servicemen of all ranks and widows subject to a maximum of Rs 1,25,000/- (One Time) and for treatment of cancer/dialysis subject to a maximum of Rs 75,000/- per annum as follows:-
For Non-Pensioner Officers/Widows. 75% of total expenditure incurred on medical treatment, hospitalization, medicines etc.
For Non-Pensioner other Ranks/Widows. 90% of total expenditure incurred per annum on medical treatment, hospitalization, medicine etc.

Note 
Expenditure must be incurred at a approved govt hospital at the rates applicable under CGHS / ECHS.
Eligibility
The following criteria must be fulfilled:-

Applicant must be a non-pensioner ESM or his widow.
Should not be member of ECHS or availing AFMS facilities.
Should be recommended by respective Zila Sainik Board (ZSB).
Expenditure must be incurred at a approved govt hospital at the rates applicable under CGHS / ECHS.
Application Process
Online
Eligible Ex-servicemen / their widows can visit the official website of Kendriya Sainik Board Secretariat (KSBS) https://ksb.gov.in/ 
Click on “Register” which is available on the homepage of the portal.
Now, the registration form will be displayed, fill the form with necessary details.
Upload the Photo
Save the application by clicking on the “Save” button and the saved details and password will be forwarded to the registered mail id.
Click the activation link which is sent to the mail id to login into the KSB portal.
Provide user name, password and verification code and click on the “Login “ button.
Select the scheme name and start filling the new application form by entering the required details.
Copies of the supporting documents duly attested by the respective Zila Sainik Welfare Officer (ZSWO) must be uploaded with the online application.
Once the online application is submitted, ZSWO will scrutinize the online applications and give appointment to the applicant for verification, 
After successful verification, ZWSO will recommend the online application and forward the harp copy as well soft copy to Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) through Rajya Sainik Boards (RSBs) for further processing.

Processing at KSB Secretariat
Once the application reaches the Kendriya Sainik Board, the Section-in-charge verify the same and upload the printed list for the approval of JD (Welfare). 

Payment Procedure
After approval of Secretary KSB, the application is processed for payment by Welfare Section. 
The welfare section verifies the Ex-servicemen's service number, name, banker's IFS Code and bank account number & forward the list of approved cases to Accounts Section for payment. 
The Accounts Section then processes the list for payment directly to beneficiaries via ECS to the beneficiaries as applicable.

Track Application Status
Applicant has to revisit the same portal https://ksb.gov.in/index.htm 
Click on “Status of application” link on the homepage of the portal.
Now enter your DAK ID and verification code. Click on the “Search” button.
Documents Required
Copies of the following documents duly attested by ZSWO must accompany the application:-

Complete Service Discharge Book/Documents.
Photocopy of ESM / widow I Card.
Original medical bills duly countersigned by attending doctor.
Hospital admission and discharge report duly countersigned by hospital authority.
A certificate from applicant that he/she has not taken any money/grant from the State Govt or present employer in the form of reimbursement or medical allowance.
Details of Bank A/c No (in PNB/SBI only) and IFS Code.
