Building And Other Construction Scholarship
Odisha
BuildingConstructionScholarship
Details
Detailed 
Students who are pursuing technical or engineering education can apply online under the BOC Scholarship for getting the scholarship amounts. The student must belong to the SC category. Students must be pursuing his or her technical education at a recognized university. 

The main objective of launching the BOC Scholarship is to provide scholarships to students pursuing technical education who have secured good or excellent merit records while carrying out their studies. This will provide social security provisions to the student belonging to the SC category or community. The student must be an ITI/ITC Polytechnic or Diploma.

Another objective of launching the BOC Scholarship is to provide social and economic welfare to the students so that they will be able to carry out their technical studies while getting the scholarship amount. The Department of Skill Development & Technical Education will initiate all scholarship operations. 

Benefits
Benefits
This scholarship offers various opportunities to SC-category students across the world. Under this scheme, the selected students will receive variable financial support from the Odisha government. Under the BOC scholarship, no living costs of the students are covered.
Eligibility
The applicants will need to follow the mentioned eligibility criteria for getting online registration under this scholarship: –
The student must be a permanent resident of Odisha. 
The student must belong to the SC category. 
The applicant must be pursuing technical education or ITI/Polytechnic courses. 
Application Process
Online
For registration, click on the Registration button on the home page of Official Website. 
The registration form will get displayed on your screen where you will need to fill in the details such as: –
Aadhar number
Name
DOB
Gender 
Mobile number 
Alternative Mobile Number 
Email Id 
Create Password
Confirm Password 
Then click on the Register button.
Then once again open the official website and click on the tab Apply Scholarship. 
Scroll throughout the page looking for the scholarship name for which you want to apply for. 
After getting the scholarship name, click on the Apply Button.
The login page will get displayed.
Enter your details for getting a login.
After getting a login you will be able to get applied for the scholarship 
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card of student
Caste Certificate of the Student
Copy of passbook of Bank account with the account number and IFSC code of the bank branch
Passport-size Photograph of a student
College Id Card of the Student
Annual Contribution Certificate of Parent/ guardian
The Marksheet of the last exam passed 
