Financial Assistance to Mussel Culture and Oyster Farming in Goa
Goa
AquacultureFinancial AssistanceFishFishermenSubsidy
Details
“Financial Assistance to Mussel Culture and Oyster Farming in Goa” is a scheme by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Goa. Through this scheme, financial assistance is provided to eligible fishermen for setting up units in estuarine waters, and in open sea. The applications are accepted only in offline mode.

Benefits
Setting Up of Unit in Estuarine Waters
50% subsidy limited to ₹ 25,000 per unit, maximum for 2 units. Each unit in the estuarine water will be of size 4 meters x 4 meters.
Setting Up of Unit in Open Sea
50% limited to ₹ 40,000 per unit, maximum for 2 units. Each unit in the Open sea will be of size 6 meters x 6 meters.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Fish Farmer/ Individual/ Registered Self Help Groups/ Societies/ Associations, interested in setting up the Mussel Culture/ Oyster Farming Unit in Goa.
The applicant should be a resident of Goa for the last fifteen years.
The applicant should have undergone a training programme on Mussel Culture/ Oyster Farming organized by the Fisheries Department/ MPEDA/ ICAR/ any other institute.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority at the Department of Fisheries, Dayanand Bandodkar Marg, Patto Colony, Panaji Goa - 403 521, or to the official posted at BDO Office/ Sub-Offices of the Department of Fisheries.

Grievance Redressal
Any dissatisfaction or complaint about any service or its standards can be registered with the Department's Grievance Redressal Officer. The grievance can also be lodged on the link dir-fish.goa@nic.in. All complaints will be acknowledged by us and final action taken will be communicated within 30 days.
Documents Required
1. Proof of Identity.
2. Photographs (2 nos.).
3. Documents for the Proof of Availability of Land (if applicable).
   A. For Owners
      (i) Copy of the Land Deed.
      (ii) Form 1 & Form 14.
   B. For Lessee
      (i) NOC from the Land Owner.
      (ii) Registered Lease Agreement.
4. Proof of Availability of Finance.
5. Detailed Project Report.
6. Estuarine Unit in River/Open Sea: NOC from Concerned Authority.
7. Certificate of Experience.
8. Expenditure Details.
9. Design/Layout of Unit.
10. Mandate Form.
