Dulari Kanya
Arunachal Pradesh
Financial AssistanceGirl ChildSocial Welfare
Details
Announced on 15th August 2016 by the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, “Dulari Kanya” is a scheme for the girl child by the Directorate of Family Welfare, Department of Health & Family Welfare of the Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh. The objective of the scheme is to end the preference between male and female child, encouragement of institutional delivery, immunization of children, to end child marriage and overall empowerment of females in all spheres of their life. An amount of ₹ 20,000/- shall be deposited in the fixed deposit Bank Account (Minor Account) of the girl child born in any Government Hospital or Government recognised private hospital. Maturity amount can be withdrawn by the beneficiary on attaining the age of 18 years, which would be subject to verification by the concerned DMO of the respective districts.

Benefits
An amount of ₹ 20,000/- shall be deposited in the fixed deposit Bank Account (Minor Account) of the girl child born in any Government Hospital or Government recognised private hospital. 
Maturity amount can be withdrawn by the beneficiary on attaining the age of 18 years, which would be subject to verification by the concerned DMO of the respective districts.
Eligibility
The girl child should be born in a Government Hospital or Government recognized private hospital in the state of Arunachal Pradesh.
The father/guardian should belong to a schedule tribe Arunachal Pradesh or a domicile resident of Arunachal Pradesh or possess a household residential certificate.
The scope of the scheme is restricted to a maximum of first two live girl child.
Application Process
Offline
Process for Application:
Application for availing the benefit under the scheme should be applied to the office of the concerned Medical Officer in-charge / Medical Superintendent in the prescribed form.
The concerned Medical Officer in-charge / Medical Superintendent after verification, shall in turn forward the document to the concerned District Medical Officer. 

Process for Claim of Maturity:
The girl child beneficiary, on attaining the age of 18 years and after passing at least the class-X exam, shall file a maturity claims in the prescribed application form to the concerned DMO. 
The prescribed application form should be duly filled up by the girl child beneficiary herself.
Documents Required
During Application:
A Copy of Delivery / Discharge Certificate by the Mo of the Hospital (as a Proof of Institution Delivery).
A Copy of MCP Card.
A Copy of Birth Certificate Issued by the Registrar of Birth & Death.
A Copy of Schedule Tribe Certificate of Father /Guardians or Domicile Certificate (in Case of Non-APST) Clearly Indicating the Time From Which Parents/Guardians Are Living in Arunachal Pradesh.
Two Numbers of Group Photographs of Girl Child With Parents/ Guardians.
A Copy of Aadhaar Card of the Parents/Guardians and Also of the Child (if Child is Enrolled Under Aadhaar).

During Claim of Maturity:
A Copy of Class 10th Passed Certificate With a Copy of Mark Sheet.
A Self Declaration About Being Unmarried on Her 18th Birthday.
A Copy of Bank Pass Book Opened in the Name of Girl Beneficiary in State Bank of India.
Withdrawal Form Filled by the Girl Herself.
