Old Age And Destitute Pension
Puducherry
Deserted WomenPudecherryTransgenderUnmarriedWidows
Details
The Government of Puducherry introduced Old Age And Destitute Pension Scheme to extend a helping hand by way of monthly financial assistance to Old Age Persons/Widows/ Deserted Women/ Unmarried Women and Enuches so that they could defray some petty personal expenses without depending on others.
Amount of assistance
₹1500/- per month for Old Age Persons, Destitute women, Widows, and Transgender with age less than 60 years.
₹2000/- per month for Old Age Persons, Destitute women, Widows, and Transgender with age between 60 years and 79 years.
₹3000/- per month for Old Age Persons, Destitute women, Widows, and Transgender with age 80 years and above.

Benefits
₹1500/- per month for Old Age Persons, Destitute women, Widows, and Transgender with age less than 60 years.
₹2000/- per month for Old Age Persons, Destitute women, Widows, and Transgender with age between 60 years and 79 years.
₹3000/- per month for Old Age Persons, Destitute women, Widows, and Transgender with age 80 years and above.
Eligibility
Old Age both men and Women above fifty-five years.
Widows above 18 years of age.
Deserted Women consecutively deserted for the past seven years.
Unmarried Women above 40 years.
Transgender above 21 years.
Application Process
Offline
Whom to Apply
Puducherry: The Deputy Director (Social Defence), Old Age Pension Section, Department of Women and Child Development, Puducherry.
Karaikal: The Child Development Project Officer, Karaikal.
Mahe/Yanam: The Welfare Officer, Mahe/ Yanam.
Processing Time
The selection is periodical and depends on the vacancies and on the availability of funds.
In case of delay whom to contact?
Puducherry: The Director, Department of Women and Child Development, Sithankudi, Puducherry.
Karaikal: The Collector, Karaikal.
Mahe/Yanam: The Regional Administrator, Mahe/Yanam.
Documents Required
Identification certificate.
Income certificate ( Not Exceeding ₹75,000/-).
Residence certificate.
Attested copy of Birth Certificate or documentary proof of age.
Attested copy of Ration Card/Identity Card.
Attested copy of Aadhaar and Bank Pass Book.
Attested copy of the Death Certificate of the husband in case of Widow.
In the case of deserted Women, a Certificate from the M.L.A. and Anganwadi Worker, that the individual has been deserted for seven years consecutively and a sworn affidavit in Appendix I.
In the case of unmarried Women, and a sworn affidavit in Appendix II.
In the Transgender, proof of being 40 years and above and a Medical Certificate from a Medical Officer.
