Pre Matric Scholarship For Scheduled Tribe Students
Ministry Of Tribal Affairs
BooksPerson With DisabilityPre MatricPwDScheduled TribeScholarshipSocial WelfareStudentTuition Fee
Details
A scholarship scheme by Ministry of Tribal Affairs for regular, full time students from Scheduled Tribe studying in Class 9th and 10th, in a Government School or in a School recognized by Govt. or a Central/State Board of Secondary Education. The income of the student’s Parents/Guardian should not exceed Rs. 2.00 lakh per annum.

The scheme aims to support the parents of ST children for education of their wards so that the incidence of drop-out, especially in the transition from the elementary to the secondary stage is minimized. The scheme improves the participation of ST children of the prematric stage, so that they perform better and have a better chance of progressing to the post-matric stage of education. 

The scholarship will be available for studies in India only and will be awarded by the Government of the State/Union Territory to which the applicant belongs i.e. where she/he is domiciled. The scholarship for studying in any class will be available for only one year.

Benefits
Scholarship for 10 months: ₹ 225 per month for Day Scholars; ₹ 525 per month for Hostellers.
Books and Ad hoc Grant: ₹ 750 per annum for Day Scholars; ₹ 1000 per annum for Hostellers.
Additional Allowances for  Person with Disability (PwD) studying in private unaided Schools - 
Reader Allowance for Blind students: ₹160.
Transport Allowance for students with disabilities (as defined in the Persons with Disabilities Act 1995), if such students do not reside in the hostel which is within the premises of the Educational Institution: ₹160.
Escort Allowance for Severely Disabled (i.e. with 80% or higher disability) Day Scholars/Students with low extremity disability: ₹160.
Helper Allowance admissible to any employee of the hostel willing to extend help to a severely orthopedically handicapped student residing in the hostel of an Educational Institution who may need the assistance of a helper: ₹160.
Coaching Allowance to Mentally Retarded and Mentally ill Students: ₹240.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a student studying in Class 9th or Class 10th.
The applicant must be from Scheduled Tribe.
The Total Annual income of parents/guardians of the applicant (from all sources) must not exceed ₹ 2.50 Lakh per Annum.
The applicant must not be availing of any other scholarship by the govt.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The application form (as prescribed by the State Govt. and made available on the website of the state govt.) complete in all respects should be submitted by the student to the Head of the Institution/School.

Step 2: The same shall be forwarded by the Head of Institution, after scrutiny and with his recommendation, to the Block / District level authorities.

Step 3: State Governments/UT Administrations will delegate powers to sanction scholarships under the scheme to appropriate District / Block level authorities/ Heads of Institution, as appropriate.
Documents Required
Aadhaar Number.
A passport size photograph with signature of the student.
A certificate (in original) of Scheduled Tribe duly signed by an authorized Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar.
An income declaration by the self-employed parents/guardians, stating definite income from all sources by way of an affidavit on non-judicial stamp paper. Employed parents/guardians are required to obtain income certificate from their employer and for any additional income from other sources, they would furnish declaration by way of an affidavit on non-judicial stamp paper.
A receipt in acknowledgement of the scholarship in the previous year on the form attached to the application only duly countersigned by the Head of the Institution/School concerned. 
(If the applicant was in receipt of a scholarship under this scheme in the preceding year).
