Financial Assistance For Purchase Of Stationery To SC/ST/OBC/Minorities Students
Delhi
Financial AssistanceMinoritiesOther Backward ClassesPurchase Of StationeryScheduled CasteScheduled TribeStudents
Details
Detailed 
The aim of the scheme is to help the poor students by providing them financial assistance for purchase of stationery so that their parents do not feel any burden in sending their children to schools. Under this scheme, financial assistance for purchase of stationery is given to those SC/ST/OBC/Minorities students, who are studying in Central Govt. / Govt. of Delhi / Aided / Recognized Local Bodies Schools etc. through the principal of the respective school and whose parental income does not exceed Rs. 2.00 Lakh per annum and attendance should not be less than 70% in the preceding year. 

Benefits
The amount of financial assistance is as followed:
I to VIII class – Rs. 1000/- P.A.
IX to XII class – Rs. 2000/- P.A.
Eligibility
Eligibility 
Applicant should belong to SC/ST/OBC/Minorities and in support thereof they are required to upload SC/ST/OBC/Minorities certificate issued by concerned district office Delhi.
Application should be resident of Delhi and in support thereof he/she is required to upload a supporting document (Domicile).
The applicant should be studying in Class 1 to 12 in a government/aided/recognized public school.
Student may not opt any centrally sponsored scholarship scheme with the state funded scheme.
Have an annual family income not exceeding INR 2 lakh.
Application Process
Online
Application Process
Log on https://edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/
Under Citizen Corner click on New User.
Click on select the document – Aadhar or Voter ID.
Enter your Aadhar Card Number/Voter ID Card Number.
Type the Captcha in the box shown.

Citizen Registration Form will Open for registration 
Fill up all fields including details of Present Residential Address.
Enter Captcha, Click on Continue.
Login ID and Password will be received on given mobile number/e-mail address.
Now Registration on e-district portal is complete.

Financial Assistance Services Process
Click on Registered User Login.
Enter given login ID and Password.
Enter Captcha and Click on Login.
Go to Main Page (Main Page) will open click on apply online.
Drop Box apply for services will open – click.
List of Departments providing online services shall open.
Go to DEPARTMENT OF WELFARE OF SC/ST.
Select “Financial Assistance for purchase of Stationery and Merit Scholarship to SC/ST/OBC/Minority” and Click on Apply.
Check the BASIC/PERSONAL DETAILS FORM and click on Continue.
Form will open fill up all required fields & uploads all required documents as per requirement of scheme selected.
Then click next and upload photograph.
Then click on finish.
One OTP will be received on registered mobile number.
Enter OTP and Submit.
Acknowledgement of successful submission shall be generated.
Documents Required
List of the required documents
Aadhaar Card.
Caste Certificate.
Residence Proof.
Income Certificate.
Previous class mark sheet.
Verification letter (for outside Delhi application).
One passport size photo of applicant.
