Kera Suraksha Insurance Scheme
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
Coconut HarvesterCoconut Tree ClimberInsuranceNeera Technician
Details
The ‘Kera Suraksha Insurance Scheme’ is a comprehensive Group Personal Accident Insurance Scheme, implemented by the Coconut Development Board, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India in association with Public Insurance companies for Coconut Tree Climbers/Neera Technicians/Coconut Harvesters.          
      The annual premium is ₹375/- and is shared between the Board and the beneficiary in the ratio of 75:25. For the trainees' ongoing skill development training of the Board viz. Friends of Coconut Tree (FoCT)/Neera Technician Training Programme, the first-year premium is fully borne by the Board from the date of commencement of training. The period of insurance is one year and needs to be renewed every year by paying ₹94/- as the contribution from the beneficiary. The scheme is implemented in all coconut-growing States.
Objective:
The aim is to attract unemployed youth to show more interest in the agriculture sector.
To overcome the shortage of coconut tree climbers, the Board launched a skill development program called 'Friends of Coconut Tree (FoCT).
Interested youths were imparted training on coconut tree climbing with a machine specially developed for the purpose as well as on scientific management of the palm, plant protection techniques, and other related activities.

Benefits
1. Components under the scheme and present compensation:
Sl. No. Benefits available - due to accidents only Sum insured
1 Death/Permanent Total disability ₹5,00,000/-
2 Permanent Partial Disablement  ₹2,50,000/-
3 Hospital expenses reimbursement (minimum 24 hours hospitalization) ₹1,00,000/- 
4 Ambulance charges ₹3,000/-
5 Weekly Compensation in case of TTD ₹18,000/-  (Maximum 1 claim in a year for a maximum of six weeks @₹3,000/- per week)
6 Bystander expenses in case of hospitalization ₹3,000/- (Maximum for 15 days @ ₹200 per day)
7 Funeral expenses in case of accidental death (subject to production of bills) ₹5,000/-
2. For the trainees ongoing the skill development training of the Board viz. Friends of Coconut Tree (FoCT)/Neera Technician Training Programme, the first-year premium is fully borne by the Board from the date of commencement of training.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Coconut Tree Climber/Neera Technician/Coconut Harvester/Trainee.
The age of the applicant should be between 18 to 65 years.
Responsibilities of Climbers /Harvesters/Neera Technicians/Trainees(Beneficiaries):
Submit applications for insurance under the insurance scheme in the prescribed format with all mandatory documents. 
Payment of his/her/their share of premium prescribed by the Board by way of demand draft/ online mode. 
Safe custody of policy document/ policy number received from the Board 
Intimation of accident within 72 hours of its occurrence to Board. 
Submission of claim form along with mandatory documents to Board, in case of accidents-related hospital expenses/death, for getting benefits under the scheme.
Share of Premium:
Annual premium under the policy is ₹375/-, out of which Board’s share of premium is ₹281/- and balance ₹94/- is the beneficiary’s share.
Beneficiary has the option of paying his/her share of the premium of ₹94/- online mode or through DD.
The period of insurance is one year and needs to be renewed every year by paying ₹94/- as a contribution from the beneficiary.
Category  Premium Payable by CTC/Trainee Subsidy by CDB Total Premium
Coconut Tree Climber ₹94/-  ₹281  ₹375/-
Trainee  Nil  ₹375/- ₹375/-
Application Process
Offline
Applying for Insurance:
Application form duly filled in and countersigned by Agriculture officer/Panchayath President/CPF office bearers/CPC Directors along with premium share and age proof needs to be sent to Chairman, Coconut Development Board, Kera Bhavan, SRVHS Road, Kochi - 682011, Kerala.
Procedure for applying claim:
All claim-related documents/correspondence have to be forwarded to the office of the Coconut Development Board given below:
Headquarters: PB No. 1021, KERA BHAVAN, SRV Road, Kochi, Kerala - 682011,
Tel: 0484 - 2376265, Fax: 0484 - 2377902,
Contact person: Statistical Officer
Email: ho-stats@coconutboard.gov.in (Application Forms)
For any discrepancies/queries on claim settlement, you may contact:
Office of The New India Assurance Company Limited for implementation of KESRI:
The New India Assurance Company Ltd, Divisional Office – I(730900), Jerome Building, 2nd Floor, Fort Station Road, Trichy -620 002
Documents Required
Documents required to apply under the scheme;
Aadhaar card
Proof of age
Caste certificate, if applicable
Declaration for Assignment
Declaration Form
Certificate issued by competent authority stating that the applicant is currently engaged in skilled labour as a Coconut Tree Climber/Neera Technician/Harvester
Payment details
Any other document, as required
In case of Accident:
Original Discharge summary/ OP Ticket
Original Medical Bills ( duly certified by a doctor)
Original Lab reports(if any)
Immobilizations Certificate (Minimum 5 days continuous disablement is required)
Fitness Certificate
Disability Certificate (In case of disablement due to accident)
FIR/GD Entry/CSR/Police Report (In case of road accident)
NEFT details (Bank name, Branch, Account Number and IFSC)
Duly signed claim voucher 
In case of Death:
Original Medical Reports
Original Death Certificate
Legal Heirship certificate
Post Mortem Report
FIR
Newspaper cutting
Viscera Report (if any)
Inquest Report
NEFT details (Bank name, Branch, Account Number and IFSC)
Duly signed claim voucher 
