Design Scheme Under MSME Innovative Scheme
Ministry Of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Business & EntrepreneurshipFinancial SupportProduct DesignProduct Development
Details
Launched by the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises ,Design scheme will help MSMEs to avail advice on all aspects of design. It helps MSMEs realize and achieve their design-related objectives. This specialist advice will be provided by experienced designers for new product development as well as enhancing existing product portfolio.
The Design scheme is divided in two major parts, viz., Design Projects and Design Awareness Programme.
Design Project: To facilitate MSMEs to develop new design strategies and or design-related products through interventions and consultancy.
Design Awareness Programme: The objective is to create general awareness and sensitization about the value and power of design for businesses through seminars, talks, workshops etc. The purpose of these activities is to sensitize MSMEs about the usage of design/innovation in various facets of their industry.

Benefits
Design Project: Financial assistance under this activity will be utilised for engagement of design consultants for design interventions and expenses pertaining to development of prototype/product. For the design projects approved for any MSME, 75% (Micro) and 60% (Small & Medium) of the total project cost will be contributed by Government of India, up to a maximum of ₹ 40,000,00/- and the remaining project cost will be borne by MSMEs and deposited to the IA.
The total project cost will be provided as a grant in 3 stages:
Stage 1: Strategy & Concept- 40%
Stage 2: Detail Design - 30%
Stage 3: Successful Completion of the prototype/product and Final Report submission - 30%.

Student Project: This component supports design work of bona-fide students by providing financial assistance up to ₹ 2,50,000/-. For the student design projects approved for any MSME,75% of the total project cost will be contributed by Government of India, up to a maximum of ₹ 2,50,000/- and the remaining project cost will be borne by MSME and deposited to the IA.
Eligibility
The beneficiary unit(s) must typically be a registered micro, small or medium enterprises.
Should have a valid Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM) or Udyam Registration certificate.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 01: After opening the website https://innovative.msme.gov.in/ , click on Design.
Step 02: On the next window, click on Join Design Scheme.
Step 03: Put the Udyam Registration Number along with the Registered Moblile Number.
Step 04: Click on Validate.
Documents Required
Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM) or Udyam Registration (UR) certificate.
UAM Registered mobile number.
