Reimbursement of Tuition Fees for Typewriting and Shorthand Courses for Children of Widows
Puducherry
ChildEducationReimbursementStudentWidow
Details
The scheme “Reimbursement of Tuition Fees for Typewriting and Shorthand Courses for Children of Widows” by the Department of Women & Child Development, Government of Pondicherry, was introduced to encourage the children of widows to pursue Typewriting and Shorthand courses and facilitate the reimbursement of the course fees.

Benefits
Financial Assistance of ₹ 50/- per month, as a reimbursement of the tuition fees.
*The reimbursement shall be allowed only for a maximum period of ten months for a course and for the first attempt only.
*The reimbursement shall be allowed only for any two children of the widow.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a native of the Union Territory of Pondicherry by birth or continuous residence for not less than 5 years.
The applicant should be a widow.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹24,000.
The child of the widow should be a Student.
The child of the widow should be enrolled in an approved recognised by the Government of Tamilnadu/Government of Kerala/Government of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of technical examinations.
The child should have passed/appeared for SSLC/Matriculation or any other equivalent examination recognized by the Education Department, Puducherry.
The child of the widow should be studying typewriting and/or shorthand.
Upto two dependent children of a widow are eligible.
The widow should not have been receiving assistance/grant under any other scheme being implemented by the Social Welfare Department, Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Women and Child Development, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Deputy Director (Women Development) or the Child Development Project Officer (depending on the location), at least 30 days before the proposed marriage date.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
1. Aadhaar Card.
2. Residence Certificate from the Revenue Department.
3. Income Certificate from the Revenue Department.
4. Passport-Sized Photograph.
5. Declaration/Undertaking (if any).
6. Study Certificate from the Institution.
7. Certificate from a Member of Legislative Assembly (M.L.A.), Member of Parliament (M.P.), Tahsildar, or Commissioner of Municipality or Commune Panchayat, affirming that the applicant is a widow, and the children for whom reimbursement is sought are her own.
8. Attested Copy of either the first page of the S.S.L.C. book or the Transfer Certificate.
9. Enrolment Certificate at the time of admission and Attendance Certificate from the Institution for subsequent months.
10. Receipt for the Tuition Fees Remitted.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
