Biju Patnaik Bravery Award
Odisha
AwardBraveryMedalScroll
Details
The “Biju Patnaik Bravery Award” was launched by the Sports & Youth Services Department, Government of Odisha to recognize spectacular acts of Bravery performed by the people of Odisha. The award was presented to commemorate the service of the late Biju Patnaik, the ex-Chief Minister of Odisha who had shown in his lifetime many acts of bravery that inspire the youth of India till today. The award shall be given annually for the most outstanding act of bravery.

Benefits
The award shall comprise of a cash award of ₹1,00,000/-, one silver medal, and a scroll.
The awardee shall be invited to receive the award in person. The awardee shall be given TA/DA at the rate of 1st Class Rail/Bus fare and arrangements for his/her stay at Bhubaneswar shall be made by the Department.
Note 01: Canvassing for the award in any form is prohibited.
Note 02: The award can also be given posthumously to the next of kin of the awardee.
Note 03: In case of involvement of more than one person in the selected act of bravery, the award money will be shared amongst all.
Note 04: It will not be binding on the Department of Sports & Y.S. to confer the award every year. In case of non-availability of suitable persons for the award, the award shall not be conferred for the respective year.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
Anybody who performs any spectacular act of bravery inside Odisha will be eligible to be considered for the Award. A resident of Odisha performing the spectacular act of bravery outside will also be eligible for this award.
The applicant should have rendered the act of bravery from 1st January to 31st December of the preceding year.
The applicant should not have been convicted of any criminal offence.
The award shall be given to a person only once in his lifetime.
Cancellation & Recovery:
The award shall be cancelled in case it is found that it has been obtained by fraudulent means.
In the event of cancellation of the award, the concerned person will be asked to refund the award (cash, silver medal and scroll) failing which steps shall be initiated to recover the involved cost from him alongwith simple interest @ 5% per annum.
Application Process
Offline
Nomination for Award:
Step 01: Advertisement for the award shall be uploaded every year in January on the Department Website with a prescribed application format which will be also available in the office of District Collector & DSO, Supdt. of Police, NYKS, NSS, BSG, NCC, IRCS & Sports & Youth Services Department.
Step 02: The nominations can be sent by the Collector, Supdt. of Police, DSO, NYKS, NSS, BSG, the person himself/herself, any registered Voluntary Organization, NCC & Indian Red-Cross Society (State or Central Branch) to the Secretary, Odisha State Youth Welfare Board, C-1, Nayapalli, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar.
Note 01: Department of Sports & Youth Services/can also suo motu nominate names for the award.
Note 02: The application form and all supporting documents must be ‘self-attested’ by the applicant i.e., there is no need for attestation by any Gazetted Officer.
Scrutiny & Selection:
Scrutiny and selection will be done by a three-member Committee chaired by Commissioner-cum-Secretary, Sports & Youth Services Department with Asst. Director, Y.S. and AFA-cum-Under-Secretary of the Department as members.
Recommendation of the Committee will be sent to Hon'ble Minister, Sports & Youth Services for Government approval.
Timelines for the Award:
Invitation of application/nomination through issue of advertisement: by 31st January
Last date for receipt of application/nomination: by 31st  March
Scrutiny & selection: by 31st May
Award Ceremony: by 29th August (National Sports Day)
Documents Required
Identity proof
Three Passport size photographs
First Information Report (FIR) or Police Diary filed with the Police Station
Newspaper/Magazine Clippings
Supporting photograph, if any
Recommendation letter, if any
Adequate documentary evidence in support of the act of bravery
