SAHAKAR MITRA: NCDC’s Scheme on Internship Programme
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
GraduateInternInternshipProfessionalSIPStudent
Details
The "SAHAKAR MITRA Scheme on Internship Programme (SIP)" was introduced by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) in the year 2012-13 with an objective to provide work-related learning experience in the core and special fields of functioning of NCDC to students of professional courses and to project contribution and achievements of NCDC in the development of cooperatives. Subsequently, the scheme was expanded to cover different states by offering SIP to students (in 2nd year of MBA Agri-Business) from State Agricultural Universities in the states where NCDC’s Regional Offices are located. Interns have gained valuable knowledge and experience in the cooperative sector over the years.   Under the programme, NCDC will provide short-term (not exceeding four months) opportunities to young professionals to acquire learning experience by applying skills and knowledge in an organizational context to facilitate professional development. The programme aims at providing an opportunity for professional graduates to get experience in areas of functioning of NCDC and related aspects of cooperatives.
Objectives:
To provide a deep immersion opportunity to professional graduates on the role, contribution and impact of NCDC and also cooperatives.
To enable the professional graduates, to learn the context and practical working of NCDC and cooperatives.
To orient professional graduates to the cooperative business model and engage themselves in start-up cooperatives.
To enable professional graduates to take up leadership and /or entrepreneur roles in FPO organized under Cooperative Acts.
To assist needy cooperatives in the preparation of business plans and projects. 

Benefits
Financial Support from NCDC: The intern will be offered the following financial benefits during the course of SIP (4 months):-
Sl. No. Details Amount
1 Consolidated monthly amount of ₹10,000/- for 4 months towards partly meeting his/her out-of-pocket expenses ₹40,000/-
2 Expenses related to report preparation (lumpsum amount towards data collection, analysis, and preparation of a report) ₹5,000/-
3 Total ₹45,000/-
Note: The last month’s consolidated amount of ₹10,000/- shall be paid upon successful completion of the internship which includes submission of reports, etc.
Tenure:
The internship duration does not exceed four months, adhering to the NCDC guidelines.
Eligibility
1. A person with any of the following qualifications will be eligible for consideration:-
Professional graduates with minimum qualification as Bachelor’s degree in Agri/ Dairy/ Animal Husbandry/ Veterinary Sciences/ Fisheries/Horticulture/ Textiles/ Handloom / IT duly recommended by the Head of the Department of the UGC / AICTE / ICAR recognized Universities / Institutions as applicable.
Professionals (pursuing or completed) MBA Agri Business / MBA Coop / M.Com / MCA / MBA Finance / MBA International Trade/MBA Forestry/MBA Rural Dev / MBA Project Management / Inter ICAI / Inter ICWA qualification duly recommended by the Head of the Department of the UGC / AICTE / ICAR recognized Universities / Institutions as applicable.
2. A person cannot be taken as an intern more than once.
Number of Interns and Location:
• NCDC limits interns to 60 overall, spanning Regional Offices, LINAC, and Head Office annually.
• Each Regional Office can host a maximum of two interns simultaneously, as per NCDC guidelines.
• A maximum of two interns per year is allowed from a specific institution, following NCDC guidelines.
Application Process
Online
Application Process:
Step 01: Visit the official Portal NCDC: Sahakar Mitra
Step 02: First click on ‘New Registration’ and fill in the relevant details like Name, e-mail ID, Date of birth, Mobile number, etc., and generate the password. 
Step 03: After submitting the registration form, a verification link will be sent on the email ID. After clicking on the verification link, the registration process will be completed.
Step 04: After successful registration, the candidate can login by entering the user name (Email ID) and password.
Step 05: After login, the ‘Sahakar Mitra Internship Application Form’ is open and the applicant can fill all the relevant details and upload the documents as per the guidelines.
Step 06: Click the ‘save’ button as well as ‘Agree with the above declaration’ and submit the form.
Step 07: Candidate registration is complete and gets the registration number.
Process of Selection:
Prospective interns will be shortlisted by committees, as may be prescribed by MD from time to time, on the basis of screening of their bio-data and recommendations of the sponsoring institutions.
Placement of interns will be made at HO / LINAC / ROs depending upon the preference of the interns and the requirement of NCDC.
The intern will be supervised by an officer designated as ‘Mentor’ for the purpose of providing orientation, guidance, special assignment, and other SIP-related activities.
In the case of interns at RO, he /she would be expected to focus on a cooperative and prepare a business plan/project report on the expansion of business of the cooperative society. The intern will submit a written report, within two weeks of completion of his/her internship, giving a detailed description of the work completed. He/ she will highlight the experience gained and how he/she plans to use it further.
The business plan/project report / detailed report submitted by the intern will be the property of NCDC and the intern would have no claim on its use in any manner.
Findings of study, research, and analysis by the intern shall not be used for publication by the intern.
There shall be no liability, whatsoever, on NCDC on account of action or inaction or on findings of the business plan/project report / detailed report submitted by the intern or action taken by him/ her during SIP.
Submission of Report:
The intern shall submit 5 copies of a fair typed report in bound form along with a soft copy, to NCDC as a part of SIP.
Contact Details:
National Cooperative Development Corporation, An ISO 9001:2015 Certified Organization
A Statutory Corporation under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
4, Siri Institutional Area, Hauz Khas, New Delhi-110016
Tel:+91-11-26962478,26960796 , Fax: +91-11-26962370, 26576032
Website: https://www.ncdc.in/
Documents Required
1.  Passport-size photograph
2.  Recommendation letter
3.  Identity proof
4.  All relevant educational documents
5.  An e-mail id
6.  A mobile number
Note: A recommendation letter can be done by the Head of the Department of the UGC/AICTE/ICAR recognized Universities/Institutions as applicable, to the Regional Director NCDC or Chief Director LINAC or Head of HR Division in HO of NCDC.
