Award of Post-Matric Scholarship to Scheduled Caste Students
Puducherry
Post MatricScheduled CasteScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme “Award of Post-Matric Scholarship to Scheduled Caste Students” was introduced by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department, Government of Puducherry. The objective of the scheme is to benefit the students who are studying at the Post-matric level or Post-Secondary stage to complete their education.

Benefits
Admissable fee fixed by Fee Committee. Reimbursement charged by the institution and award of maintenance allowance for hostlers or day scholars.
Eligibility
The applicant should be from a Scheduled Caste.
The applicant should be a student studying at the Post-Matric level or Post Secondary Stage.
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for not less than 5 years.
The annual income should not exceed ₹ 2,00,000/-.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Adi Dravidar Welfare and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Residence-cum-nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Caste Certificate.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Aadhaar Card.
Bank Passbook.
Bonafide Certificate.
Fee Structure.
Hostel Certificate.
Income Certificate.
Transfer Certificate.
Attested copies of qualifying certificates Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC), +2 Higher Secondary (H.Sc.), Degree & Diploma, etc., in respect of exam passed.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
