AICTE-Technical Book Writing & Translation Scheme
Ministry of Education
Financial SupportRemunerationTechnical Book WritingTranslation
Details
AICTE-Technical Book Writing & Translation scheme has been launched by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to promote the use of 'Scheduled Regional Language' in Technical Education for creating knowledge base in local language and to encourage creation of treasure of latest technical knowledge incorporating the newest developments by grant of financial support to the distinguished faculty/writers/translators.
Objectives:
To encourage, promote and support maximum number of writers to write and publish the technical subject books in Indian scheduled regional language including Hindi.
List of (12) Scheduled Regional Languages included in Technical Book Writing Scheme of AICTE:
Hindi.
Assamese.
Bengali.
Gujarati.
Kannada.
Malayalam.
Marathi.
Odia.
Punjabi.
Tamil.
Telugu.
Urdu.

Benefits
Maximum funding for translation work and for original Technical Book Writing (Funding will be shared in case of multiple authors) shall be limited to :
Original book writer for UG : ₹ 2,00,000/-
Original book writer for Diploma : ₹ 1,50,000/-
Reviewer for UG: ₹ 40,000/-
Reviewer for Diploma: ₹ 30,000/-
Translator for UG & Diploma: ₹ 1,00,000/-
Reviewer of translated books in regional languages for UG & Diploma: ₹  20,000/- (In case of an author & co-author for one book, the amount will be split between the both).
Eligibility
The Faculty- retired or working in AICTE approved institutions (Degree/Diploma/Pharmacy/Management/Architecture etc.) or researchers of suchinstitutions.
The proposed author(s) to be of reputed with command over the subject and the language chosen for writing.
The proposed author(s) should have a proven academic record of brilliance.
The proposed author(s) should have been recognized in the similar nature work earlier.
Application Process
Offline
Kindly visit AICTE Website > Schemes > Staff Development Schemes > Technical Book Writing and Translation or visit https://www.aicteindia.org/schemes/staff-development-schemes
Click and download the Application for Technical Book Writing and Translation.
Fill in the required information.
Verify that every page of the application form has signature and stamp of the Institute’s Head.
Attach all the essential documents along with the filled application form.
Kindly ensure all the information is correct and then send the Application form along with all the essential documents through registered post/ speed post to:
Prof. Dileep N Malkhede,
Adviser RIFD
All India Council for Technical Education,
Nelson Madela Marg, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi - 110070
Documents Required
Required details and documents:
Institute Details.
Details of the Writer of the book/Translator.
Details of the Book to be Evaluated.
Academic credentials of the book writer.
Purpose/Benefits of writing/translating the book.
Mandate Form (For Institutes / Colleges).
