Fruit Development Scheme
Meghalaya
AgricultureFarmerFruit ProductionHorticulturalPlanting MaterialSubsidy
Details
The scheme ‘Fruit Development Scheme’ was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to make available to the farmers good quality planting materials in convergence mode and sale at subsidized rates.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Quality planting materials for sale at 50% subsidy and free of cost to the farmers under convergent mode with MGNREGA.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Sl. No. Entitlement Owantum of Assistance
1 To promote fruit cultivation by making available to farmers good quality planting materials including horticultural tools and implements. (i) 50% subsidy sale to the farmers. (ii) Free sampling of planting materials for convergent mode with MGNREGA.
2 Citrus rejuvenation programme for the senile orchard by providing planting materials for gap filling and organic-based plant protection measures. 100% assistance.
3 Creeper fruit plants like- Kiwi, Grapes, etc. permanent trellies system are provided but planting and erection are to be done by farmers. 75% subsidy assistance is limited to 500 sqm per beneficiary.
Eligibility
The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in Agriculture, possessing own or leased land of at least 0.2 (hectares) or more.
Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
Bonafide farmers on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact:
1. District Horticulture Officer
2. Horticulture Development Officer
Documents Required
1. Passport-size photograph
2. Identity Proof
3. Bank passbook/account details
4. Documents proof of possessing own or leased land
5. Any other document as required
