Gambhir Bimari Sahayata Yojana
Uttar Pradesh
Construction WorkersFinancial AssistanceHealthSerious Illness
Details
The Uttar Pradesh Gambhir Bimari Sahayata Yojana is a government-funded scheme that provides financial assistance to such construction workers who are not covered under "Ayushman Bharat Jan Arogya Yojana" and "Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana" in the UP Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.

Benefits will be provided to the family member of the construction worker in case of illness, for treatment in any government hospital or autonomous hospital of the Government of India or Uttar Pradesh Government or such hospitals which have been empanelled by the National Health Authority of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana or SACHIS (State Agency For Comprehensive Health Insurance and Integrated Services) functioning at the state level.

Benefits
Full reimbursement of an amount equivalent to the benefit payable under Ayushman Bharat Scheme on treatment in government/autonomous hospitals or SACHIS empaneled hospitals.
In case of medical/surgical treatment, advance amount can also be paid to the hospital after the hospital gives the estimate for the treatment.
No maximum amount is fixed.
The scheme covers the cost of treatment for a variety of serious illnesses, including:
Heart surgery.
Kidney transplant.
Liver transplant.
Brain surgery.
Changing the knees of the legs.
Cancer treatment.
HIV AIDS disease.
Eye surgery.
Stone Surgery.
Appendix surgery.
Hydrocele surgery.
Surgery for breast cancer in women.
Surgery for cervical cancer.
Also cover the diseases which comes under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan-mantri Jan-arogya Yojana and Mukhya-mantri Jan-arogya Yojana. 
Eligibility
Applicant must be registered workers under labor department. 
Beneficiary can not get the similar type of government scheme benefits like Pradhan Mantri Jan-Arogya Yojana and Chief Minister Jan-Arogya Yojana.
Only below family members are covered
Self.
Depended parents.
Spouse (Husband/Wife).
Daughter.
Son (only if below 21 years of age)
Application Process
Offline
Online
How to get register and apply for the scheme
Applicant must visit the below offices
Nearest labor office.
Tehsildar of the concerned tehsil.
Block Development Officer of the concerned development block.
Get the application form and fill out the completely.
Attach required documents in the prescribed format.
Submit the application form in the same office.
Documents Required
Copy of construction worker registration card.
Copy of Aadhar Card.
Copy of bank passbook for account number, branch name and IFSC code.
Disease related Details.
Doctor's certificate on format.
Medicines original bill.
Certificate of being an unmarried daughter or a daughter below 21 years of age.
