Supply of Invalid Carriages (Motorized Tri-cycles) to the Persons With Disabilities
Puducherry
CycleDisabilityPwDTransportVehicle
Details
The scheme “Supply of Invalid Carriages (Motorized Tri-cycles) to the Persons With Disabilities” by the Department of Social Welfare, Government of Puducherry is introduced to supply invalid carriages (motorised tricycles) free of cost to the differently abled persons who are engaged in gainful employment or who are pursuing higher / professional / technical education.

Benefits
Invalid carriages (Motorized Tricycles) are provided free of cost to the persons with disabilities.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Native/Resident of the Union Territory of Puducherry for at least 5 years.
The annual income of the applicant should not exceed ₹ 75,000/- per annum.
The applicant should have a locomotor disability affecting lower limbs to a degree not less than 65%.
The applicant should be certified by the Medical Authority that he/she is fit for operating the invalid carriage (motor tricycle).
The applicant should not be in receipt of transport allowance for conveyance from the Department or any other source.
The applicant should be in gainful employment or pursuing higher studies.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Office/ Sub-Office of the Department of Social Welfare, and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format 
of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the authority given below - 
Puducherry: The Deputy Director, Differently Abled Section, Directorate of Social Welfare. 
Karaikal: The Assistant Director, Social Welfare Department (Sub Office).
Mahe / Yanam: The Welfare Officer (i\c), Social Welfare Department (Sub Office). 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Residence-cum-Nativity Certificate, issued by the competent authority.
Recent Passport-Size Photograph.
Bank Passbook.
Bonafide Certificate from Institution or Working Certificate.
Financial Assistance ID Card.
Caste Certificate.
Disability Certificate.

In the absence of an Aadhaar Card; the applicant is required to provide his/her Aadhaar Enrolment ID along with ANY ONE of the following documents - 
1. Bank or Post Office Passbook with Photo.
2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card.
3. Passport.
4. Ration Card.
5. Voter Identity Card.
6. MGNREGA Card.
7. Kisan Photo Passbook.
8. Driving license issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988).
9. Certificate of identity having a photo of such person issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letterhead.
10. Any other document as specified by the Department.
