Tea Development Scheme
Meghalaya
AgricultureFarmerFinancial AssistanceHorticultureSubsidyTeaTea Grower
Details
The scheme “Tea Development Scheme” was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya to continue the experimental plantation of tea and to find the possibility of growing tea economically as well as on a commercial scale. Further, seedlings are raised in the experimental station and distributed free to farmers.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Seedlings are offered for sale at the rate ₹1/- per tea seedling and one-time financial assistance at the rate ₹10,000/- per hectare.
PP chemicals, equipment, brush cutters, tea harvesters, etc. on sale at the rate of 50% subsidy.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Sl. No. Entitlement Owantum of Assistance
1 Training programme to the Tea Growers at Village 100% assistance
2 To promote tea plantation by providing tea seedlings to the growers at the District level/ Tea Development Centre. ₹1/- per seedling sale to the growers
3 Sale of Bio fertilizers, Bio pesticides, Bio fungicides, equipment, etc. to the tea growers by Tea Development Centre situated at Umsning, Rongram, Riangdo. 50% subsidy sale to the growers.
Eligibility
The applicant/farmer should be a resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in Agriculture, possessing own or leased land of not exceeding 2 Ha/family.
Note: The applicant farmer can avail of the benefits of the scheme on a first come first serve basis.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the required documents at your nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/ Horticulture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
Bonafide farmers on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact:
1. District Horticulture Officer
2. Horticulture Development Officer.
Documents Required
1. Passport-size photograph
2. Identity Proof
3. Bank passbook/account details
4. Documents proof of possessing own or leased land
5. Any other document as required
