Chief Minister Breakfast Scheme
Tamil Nadu
BreakfastChildrenFoodPrimary SchoolStudent
Details

The Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Breakfast Scheme by the Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment  of the Tamil Nadu Government for School Students. Breakfast will be provided to primary school children from 1st to 5th standard studying in Government schools on all school working days. In the first phase, Corporations, Municipalities, and Panchayats were selected based on the high prevalence of Anemia as per NHFS-5 data, economically backward blocks as per SBGF, habitations of the Tribal population, and inaccessibility of the areas, which will be covered under this scheme. At present 1,14,095 primary school children studying in 1545 Government schools will be covered under the scheme a total cost of ₹33.56 crores which will be extended to remaining schools in a phased manner.

Benefits
The following benefits will be provided to Students of Primary Schools under Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Breakfast Scheme:-
Free Breakfast will be provided to all Primary School Students.
Breakfast has 13 Types of Food Items which will be distributed among Students.
Free Breakfast will be distributed daily from Monday to Friday on School Working Days.

Days Menu Type Breakfast Food Items
Monday Uppama Type Rava Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar. Vermicelli Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar. Rice Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar. Wheat Rava Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar.
Tuesday Khichadi Type Rava Vegetable Kitchadi. Vermicelli Vegetable Kitchadi. Sorghum Vegetable Kitchadi. Wheat Rava Vegetable Kitchadi.
Wednesday Pongal Type Rava Pongal with Vegetable Sambhar. Pongal with Vegetable Sambhar.
Thursday Uppama Type Vermicelli Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar. Rice Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar. Rava Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar. Wheat Rava Uppama with Vegetable Sambhar.
Friday Sweet Type Sweet Pongal. Rava Kesari. Vermicelli Kesari.
Eligibility
Benefit will be provided only to Students.
Students should be Studying in the Government of Tamil Nadu Schools.
Students of Class 1st to Class 5th will only be eligible.
Application Process
Offline
There is no need to apply anywhere for the Tamil Nadu Government's Chief Minister Breakfast Scheme.
Student will get the breakfast (scheme benefits) at their school. 
Documents Required
Every Student enrolled in Tamil Nadu Government Schools from Class 1st to Class 5th are eligible for free breakfast scheme of Tamil Nadu Government.
So no further documents is required to avail the benefit of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Breakfast Scheme.
