Amma Two Wheeler Scheme for Working Women
Tamil Nadu
BankingEmpowermentLoanTwo WheelerWomen
Details
The Amma two-wheeler working women scheme Department of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment provides a scheme to empower working women by enabling them to purchase women-friendly two-wheelers and to ease their commute to their enterprises, places of employment, and engagements with banks and community-based institutions. Ease of use is a key consideration and therefore the vehicle is gearless/auto-geared. The Differently Abled Mayavaill o  retro-fitted three-wheeler scooters. Each year one lakh working women will benefit through this scheme. 

Benefits
The reservation under the Amma two-wheeler scheme is as follows:
21% of the scheme's allocation is reserved for women belonging to Scheduled Castes.
1% of the scheme’s allocation is reserved for women belonging to Scheduled Tribes.
4% of the scheme’s allocation is reserved for differently abled women (across all categories).

Subsidy: A beneficiary under this scheme will be provided with a maximum subsidy of 50% of the cost of the vehicle or ₹25,000/- whichever is less, to purchase a brand new motorized gearless / auto-geared two-wheeler whose engine capacity should not exceed 125cc. The balance cost, over and above the subsidy amount, has to be borne by the beneficiary through a bank/institutional loan or her funds. 

Loan Facilities: The beneficiary can buy the vehicle of her choice from her funds or by availing loans from Banks/Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) governed by the rules of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Reimbursement of subsidy to the beneficiary will be permitted in case the vehicle is purchased from her funds, subject to the fulfillment of the other conditions specified for eligibility
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of and residing in Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be in the age group of 18 to 40 years.
The applicant should know how to drive and possess a valid Two Wheeler / Learner License Registration (LLR) at the time of applying.
The annual income of the beneficiary should not exceed ₹ 2,50,000/-.
Only woman and only one woman will be eligible to avail of the benefit in a family.
The applicant should have appeared for the class 8th examination (Passed/Failed).
Priority will be given to working women residing in remote places, hilly regions, women-headed households, deserted women, destitute widows, differently abled women, Unmarried women aged above 35 years, Scheduled Caste/Tribes, and Transgender.

Note Saving clause: if the applicant has applied with a Learner License Registration(LLR) she should get a valid Two Wheeler Driving License before submitting the subsidy claim form. She should also attach a copy of the two Wheeler Driving License to the subsidy claim form, at the time of applying. Further, she should produce the original Driving License for official verification, as and when needed.
Application Process
Offline
The application form for women in rural areas is different. Applicant can visit the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women to access the form for rural areas and follow these steps:

Application Form Rural : https://pmmodiyojana.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Application-Form-Rural.pdf
Step 1: Stick your passport-sized photograph in the designated space.
Step 2: Fill in the name of your district, block, village panchayat, etc.
Step 3: Furnish your details like name, address, date of birth, father/husband's name, educational qualification, and other relevant information.
Step 4: Provide details including the price of the scooter you want to buy. Mention whether you are purchasing the vehicle from your funds or a loan. Also enclose your vehicle’s invoice quotation and details of the bank if taking a loan, etc.
Step 5: You are also required to mention the documents enclosed with the application form.
Step 6: Mention the date and place and do your signature on the application form.
Step 7: The application forms will be filled and submitted to the respective Block offices / Urban Local Bodies (ULBs)


Application for Urban Areas :https://pmmodiyojana.in/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Application-Form-Urban.pdf
Step 1: Stick your passport-sized photograph in the designated space.
Step 2: Fill in the name of your district, corporation, municipality, town panchayat, ward, etc.
Step 3: Furnish your details like name, date of birth, father/husband's name, educational qualification, address, and other relevant information.
Step 4: Provide driving or learner’s license details and details of the vehicle you wish to buy. You must also provide the invoice quotation, bank details if availing a loan, etc.
Step 5: Mention the additional documents like driver or learner’s license, Aadhaar number, proof of education, community certificate, etc.
Step 6: Mention the date and place and do your signature on the application form.
Step 7: The application forms will be filled and submitted to the respective Block offices / Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).
Documents Required
Proof of Age (18 to 40) / Date of birth
Proof of Residence ( EPIC card, Driving License, Aadhar Card, Utility Bills, etc.,in the Applicant’s name)
Driving License / Learner License Registration (LLR) issued by competent authority 
 Income Certificate issued by Employer / Self Certification
Proof of Employment issued by the Employer/Organization/Project Head/society in case of Wage / Salaried employment.
 Aadhaar card.
Proof of Educational Qualification / Appearance for the VIII standard exams (Transfer Certificate, SSLC, etc.,)
Passport size photograph
Proof to establish membership of priority category, wherever applicable
Community Certificate (in case of Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) category).
Differently Abled Identity Card issued by a competent authority
Quotation/Pro-forma invoice of the vehicle
Note: Driving license / Learner License Registration (LLR) and age proof are mandatory at the time of applying. Any shortcomings should be intimated to the applicant in the acknowledgment slip (Annexure C1).
