National Startup Awards
Ministry Of Commerce And Industry
BusinessEmpowerSelf EmploymentStartup
Details
The National Startup Awards by the Department of Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the government of India gives to benefit entities from such recognition in various aspects of their business, including but not limited to, business, financing, partnerships, and talent, a role model for other entities and budding entrepreneurs. It will inspire them to be purposeful and responsible about their socio-economic impact. 

The first-ever National Startup Awards (‘NSA’) were concluded in October 2020, to recognize and reward outstanding startups and ecosystem enablers that are building innovative products or solutions and scalable enterprises, with high potential of employment generation or wealth
creation, demonstrating measurable social impact .

Categories of Award
Award Category Award Focus Area
Women-Led Innovation  Startups led by at least one-woman director
Impact in Rural Areas Startups creating wealth, livelihood and improving lives through their innovations in rural areas
NextGen Innovator Startups with student founders who have built innovative solutions at a young age
India’s Social Impact Champion Startups working towards social impact in healthcare, Indic language, education, livelihood, or any other allied area
Excellence in Innovation from the North-East and Hilly States/UT Startups with innovative solutions from Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh and Uttarakhand
Sustainability Champion Startups focused on climate change, sustainability, waste management, renewables, or allied sectors
Champions of Cultural Heritage Startups preserving or proliferating textiles, art, and tourism among others
Retail Innovator of the Year Startups in retail technologies or food processing
Best Startup of the Year  Startup with the aggregate highest score amongst all categories
Rising Star Award Early-stage startups with growth potential
Genesis Innovators of the year Startups focused on disruptive technology, including, Deep-Tech
Accessibility Innovation Award  Startups working towards improving accessibility for people with disabilities (PwD)
Financial Inclusion Award  Startups working towards financial inclusion & literacy
AeroInnovate Award  Startups focused on aerospace, drones, or aviation solution
Excellence in Local to Global  Startups with an international consumer base
Independent Trailblazer Award  Startups who have been bootstrapped from their inception
PivotPro Award Startups that have changed the existing business model and successfully revamped their business in the face of adversity
The Next Pioneer Award  Startups that have strong product-market fit, and are building a sustainable, successful business
Innovators for Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Startups working for adoption and promotion of innovative farming and production practices
Indigenous Ingenuity Champion Startups that have been manufacturing in India


Rules for National Startup Awards 2023
Participation in the National Startup Awards is voluntary.
Startups who have been declared winners under any sector/sub-sector or category in any of the previous editions of the National Startup Awards will not be eligible. However, the finalists of the previous editions may apply.
Award application form is to be filled in English only.
One startup can nominate itself in maximum 2 categories.
Finalists maybe subject to a legal due diligence review by independent third-party evaluators. If the individual/organization refuses to such a request, Startup India holds the right to select the next highest scoring nominee as the award winner.
By participating in the National Startup Awards, the startups agree to the Government of India’s and its partners use of its name, URL, photos, and videos for promotional purposes on its website and other promotional material.
Any false information provided within the context of National Startup Awards by any entity concerning identity, mailing address, telephone number, email address, ownership of right, or non-compliance with these rules or any terms and conditions or the like may result in the immediate elimination of the entity from the awards process.
The decisions of the jury and the evaluation agency shall be final and binding.
All support agencies, jury, shall sign (physically or digitally) a non-disclosure agreement with Startup India.
DPIIT reserves the right at its sole discretion to cancel, terminate, modify, or suspend the National Startup Awards or not award any entity in any of the categories. DPIIT further reserves the right to disqualify any candidate/entity that tampers with the submission process, commits fraud or is in violation of criminal and/or civil laws.
Allowances shall not be paid to any entity for travel or presentation before jury

Benefits
 A cash prize of ₹ 10,00,000/- will be awarded to one winning startup in each of the categories by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT)
The winner and the finalists will be given the opportunity to present their solutions to relevant public authorities and corporate for potential pilot projects and work orders.
The winners and finalists will be given priority for participation in various national and international startup events where DPIIT is participating. 
Eligibility
The startup should be a (DPIIT)Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade -recognized startup. The entity must submit its certificate of recognition.
The entity must submit the Certificate of Incorporation issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or Certificate of Registration from the Registrar of Firms of the respective state
The entity must have a hardware or software product or a process solution that is present in the market.
The entity must have all applicable trade trade-specific registrations (for example (CE)Common Era, (FSSAI) Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, (MSME)Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, (GST)Goods and Services Tax Registration, etc.)
There should not have been any default in the last three years (FY)Fiscal year 2019-20, 20-21, 21-22) by the entity or any of its promoters or any of their group entities.
The entity must submit audited financial statements (balance sheet, profit & loss account) for the last three financial years (FY)Fiscal year  2019-20, 20-21, 21-22. In case your startup is less than 3 years old, please upload all available financial statements. Startups that are less than a year old and do not have audited financials will be exempt from this requirement. In case of non-availability of audited financials for (FY)Fiscal year  21-22, provisional statements issued by Chartered Accountants may be provided.
The entity should not be completing 10 years of incorporation on or before March 31st, 2024.
Application Process
Online
Step1: Register on Startup India and obtain DPIIT recognition
In case you are already registered on Startup India and have a DPIIT recognition number, ensure that all the details given on Startup India registration are correct as certain fields will auto-populate in the application form. 

Step 2: Go to the ‘National Startup Awards’ tab on the Startup India Website

Step 3: Click on the ‘Apply for National Startup Awards 2023’ tab

Step 4: Click on ‘Apply’ under the application closing countdown and select the category under which the startup wishes to apply. You will only be able to fill out the form through the registered account of the recognized startup on the Startup India portal.

Step 5: Check the auto-populated details in the participation form for National Startup Awards

Step 6: Fill in the details as mentioned in the application form

Step 7: Ensure to keep the documents ready for upload.

Step 8: Ensure that all the uploads required to comply with the size requirement as mentioned

Step 9: Click ‘Submit’
Documents Required
Certificate of Recognition issued by DPIIT.
Certificate of Incorporation/Certificate from the Registrar of Firms.
Memorandum of Association, Partnership deed or other government accepted proof as proof for a woman founder (if applicable).
PAN card for founder/co-founder.
Aadhar card for founder/co-founder .
Startup Pitch Deck (Not more than 10 slides).
Trade specific registrations.
Proof of Patent, IPR (if applicable).
Audited financial statements for the past 3 years (Profit & Loss Statement, Balance Sheet and Income Tax Return) or Provisional financial statements issued by a Chartered Accountant, in case of non availability of audited financials for FY 2021-22. 
Please attach all relevant documents, MOUs or agreements that would make your application stand out, specially, to differentiate your application and to make it more relevant and specific for the applied category.Eg : Proof of admission into academic institution or proof of graduation or any other relevant document for your application under ‘Next Gen Innovator’. Product proof of manufacturing and ownership certificates for manufacturing facility for your application under ‘Indigenous Ingenuity Champion’ and etc.
120 seconds video explaining your product or service (this video cannot be a YouTube link; it has to be made for application to National Startup Awards). The
video should cover – business model, scalability, innovation, social & economic impact on environment
Self attested documents with proof of active users, number of employees hired, R&D and prototype development, proof of funding raised, proof of TRL level of startup (if applicable).
