ICAR - Post Matric Scholarship For Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribes Candidates
Ministry Of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare
AgriculturePost MatricScheduled CasteScheduled TribeScholarship
Details
The scheme "Post-Matric Scholarship to Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes Candidates" was introduced by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), to enable the students belonging to the weaker sections of society to complete undergraduate courses. The scholarship is provided for studying at the Bachelor's Degree program in various branches of Agriculture viz. B.Sc.(Agri.), B.V.Sc., B.Sc.(Agril. Engg.), B.Sc.(Home Science), B.F.Sc., B.Sc.(Forestry) etc. The value of the scholarship will be ₹ 1,000/- per month along with a contingent grant of ₹ 750/- per annum for the payment of tuition fees, purchase of books, cost of uniforms, etc. The duration of the scholarship will cover the whole of the normal period of the particular degree program to which the candidate is admitted.

Benefits
VALUE OF SCHOLARSHIP
The value of the scholarship will be ₹ 1,000/- per month along with a contingent grant of ₹ 750/- per annum for the payment of tuition fees, purchase of books, cost of uniforms, etc. 

DURATION OF SCHOLARSHIP
The duration of the scholarship will cover the whole of the normal period of the particular degree program to which the candidate is admitted. 
Eligibility
This scholarship is exclusively meant for students belonging to Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes communities as defined by the Government of India. Only those students who have been admitted to Agricultural Universities in any of the undergraduate degrees programmes of Agriculture & Allied Sciences will be eligible for this scholarship
Application Process
Online
Step 01:
The scholarship amount as well as the contingent grant will be remitted to the respective institutions by the Council on the basis of the demand received from each institution through the Registrar / Comptroller of the University in the prescribed proforma: https://education.icar.gov.in/pdf/format-PMS-2017.pdf

Step 02:
The students will be eligible to receive scholarships and contingent grants from the date of joining the course.

Procedure of Selection:
1.  A tentative distribution of scholarships will first be made to various agricultural universities on the basis of seats reserved by the individual agricultural universities for SC/ST candidates. 
2.  The actual number of scholarships allotted to the universities every year would, however, be determined on the basis of actual SC/ST students admitted so as to maintain approximately equal proportion between the number of SC/ST students admitted in each university to the number of scholarships available.
Documents Required
Student Photo.
Aadhaar Number.
Caste Certificate.
Details of the Aadhaar Linked Bank Account.
Residential/Domicile Certificate.
Proof of Admission.
Proof of Identity.
Marksheets of the Previous Qualified Examination.
