Student Internship Programme
Comptroller And Auditor General Of India
Information TechnologyInternshipStudent
Details
The Student Internship Program, a unique learning opportunity aims to provide the Interns exposure to the functioning of the CAG of India. The office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) invites applications for engaging Student Interns (SIs) on contract basis for a duration of 3 to 6 months to
work in the Regional Capacity Building and Knowledge Institutes. Candidates pursuing under graduation/ post-graduation / research in any discipline from recognized, reputed institutions, with stellar academic record are eligible to apply. Preferred attributes include skills in Information Technology (IT) & Information
Communication Technology (ICT) with good communication and interpersonal skills. The Student Intern (SI) shall be subject to the laws of secrecy of the country and will sign a Secrecy and Non-Disclosure Agreement before reporting for the internship. Interns will have to present to the concerned Head of the Functional Wing/Head of the Field office a Report/Paper on the assigned subject at the end of the internship. The Head of the Functional Wing at CAG office/Head of Field Office will review the progress of the projects on a regular basis. At the end of the internship, an Experience Certificate / Recommendatory letter shall be given.
Number of Interns
The number of Student Interns to be engaged by the CAG of India shall depend on the actual requirement from time to time. 
Duration
The duration of internship for a Student Intern shall be 3 to 6 months.
Place of Posting
The place of posting will be the CAG’s office, New Delhi or any of CAG’s field office across India. 
Travel, Service Incurred Death, Injury or Illness, Allowances
No TA/DA will be paid to the SI to attend the interviews.
No other perks and facilities such as DA, accommodation, residential phone/conveyance/transport, foreign travel, personal staff, medical reimbursement, CGHS etc. shall be admissible,
In the event of death, injury or illness of the SI during the term of his/her internship the SI or the SI’s dependents, legal heirs, claimant etc., shall not be entitled to any compensation.

Benefits
Remuneration
Token remuneration is ₹12,000/-(all inclusive) per month, per intern which will be paid on satisfactory completion of their internship and on submission of their Report/Paper.
Logistics support
Interns will be provided with the necessary logistics support, i.e. office space and computer with internet facility.
Outplacement
At the end of the internship, an Experience Certificate / Recommendatory letter shall be given.
Eligibility
Minimum Attributes
The applicant should not be more than 25 years of age.
Candidates pursuing under graduation/ post-graduation / research in any discipline from recognized, reputed institutions, with stellar academic record are eligible to apply.
Preferred Attributes
It includes skills in Information Technology (IT) & Information Communication Technology (ICT) with good communication and interpersonal skills.
Other Attributes
The Student Intern (SI) shall be subject to the laws of secrecy of the country and will sign a Secrecy and Non-Disclosure Agreement before reporting for the internship.
The working hours of the SI shall be same as regular timing of this office. The SI shall not be entitled to any kind of leave.
No extra remuneration shall be allowed for working beyond office hours or on Saturdays/Sundays/Gazetted Holidays. 
Application Process
Online
After reading the instructions carefully, the applicant may visit the link: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc2YalGsTbVe-QcpxPotewRiqrVi-GZQKWg40DWhP_Q-mDqBQ/viewform to apply for this programme.
Fill in all the details of the form and submit.
It is also requested that all the candidates may visit the official website of CAG for obtaining latest updates regarding this programme.
Documents Required
Submission of Paper
Interns will have to present to the concerned Head of the Functional Wing/Head of the Field office a Report/Paper on the assigned subject at the end of the internship.
Interns are required to furnish a declaration of Secrecy before commencement of the internship.
Feedback
Interns are mandated to give their feedback to the Head of the Functional Wing/ Head of Field Office, on their experience of the Program.
