"Training in Silk" Component of the "Development of Silk" Scheme
Puducherry
EmploymentIndustrySilkSkillTrainingYouth
Details
The "Training in Silk" Component of the "Development of Silk" Scheme by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Union Territory of Puducherry, aims to revamp the silk weaving industry and generate employment. It offers comprehensive one-year training to equip individuals with the necessary skills. The objective is to develop silk and silk-based industry, to train rural youth in silk weaving and to generate employment thereby.

Benefits
For Trainees
Monthly stipend of ₹1500.
For Master Trainer
An honorarium of ₹500 per trainee per month (up to ₹5000).
A compensation of ₹500 per trainee per month for raw materials (up to ₹5000).
Eligibility
The age of the applicant should be between 18 and 35 years.
The applicant should be literate.
The applicant should be a native of Puducherry or a continuous resident of Puducherry for three years.
The applicant should not have already been trained before through this scheme.
Application Process
Offline
Online
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during office hours) the Project Manager, District Industries Centre (Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009), and submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the Project Manager.
Step 4: On receipt of the application, necessary entries will be made in the application receipt register and a unique number is assigned to the applicant for identifying each applicant which shall be used for all further references and also as acknowledgement for the receipt of the application.
Documents Required
Birth Certificate.
Residence Certificate.
Any other document as required by the District Industries Centre.
