Assistance Scheme for Occupational Diseases (GBOCWWB)
Gujarat
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerFinancial AssistanceFree Medical TreatmentInjuriesLabourOccupational Diseases
Details
The “Assistance Scheme for Occupational Diseases” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development & Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is given to registered construction workers for 15 types of occupational diseases and 23 types of serious injuries.

Benefits
Free medical treatment and monthly assistance of ₹1500/- shall be provided to the registered construction worker under normal circumstances in case of less than 90% disability.
Free medical treatment and monthly assistance of ₹3000/- shall be provided to the registered construction worker in case of 90 to 100% disability.
The above assistance shall be provided up to a maximum limit of ₹3,00,000/-.
Financial assistance is provided to the registered construction workers for 15 types of occupational diseases and 23 types of serious injuries.
Terms and Conditions:
Labourers falling under the category of construction workers as determined by the State Government from time to time, who should be registered with the Board as construction workers, shall be treated free of cost in a hospital approved by the State Government.
Eligibility
The construction workers registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
The registered worker who has any type of disability due to an occupational disease or any serious injuries can avail of the benefits under this scheme.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Application Process for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Login to Portal’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, update your profile by entering all the necessary details as required and click on ‘Update’.
Step 06: Select the ‘Construction Works Form’ and fill out all the mandatory information in the form.
Step 07: Upload all the relevant documents, agree with the terms & conditions, and submit the form.
Step 08: Once the application has been submitted, an application Number is generated which can be kept for future reference.
Process to track Application Status:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the e-Nirman Portal: https://enirmanbocw.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘View Citizen Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Number and Date of Birth.
Step 04: Now click on ‘View Status’.
Application Process for Scheme Benefit:
Step 01: The applicant may visit the Sanman Portal: https://sanman.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Aadhaar Card Number, select user type, and then enter E-Nirman Card Number.
Step 04: Now, click on ‘Fetch’ & submit the details.
Step 05: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 06: Now, select the scheme and read the instructions carefully for the selected scheme.
Step 07: Fill out the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 08: Agree with the Rules & Regulations and submit the application form. A confirmation email with the application Number will be sent to the registered email ID.
Documents Required
Documents required for ‘E-Nirman Card’ under the GBOCWWB:
Photograph of the worker
Aadhaar Card
Ration Card
Caste Category certificate, if applicable
Proof of age (Birth certificate/Driving Licence/PAN Card/Voter ID Card)
Self-declaration certificate 
Employer Certificate
Bank Passbook/cancelled Cheque
Any other documents as required
Documents required for Scheme Benefit:
e-Nirman Card of the worker
Passport-size photograph
Hospital discharge certificate
Copy of bank account passbook
Copy of ration card
Life Certificate (at the end of six months)
Certificate with a percentage of disability with the signature of the certifying surgeon
Any other documents as required
