Jagananna Videshi Vidya Deevena
Andhra Pradesh
Financial AssistanceHigher EducationScholarship For Students
Details
Jagananna Videshi Vidya Deevena, or Andhra Pradesh Overseas Study Scholarship, is a scholarship scheme launched on 11.07.2022 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh, Social Welfare Department for providing financial assistance to eligible students of Andhra Pradesh state for studying in overseas universities. The scheme is named after Shri Jaganmohan Reddy, Hon'ble Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. 

Aims:
The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to eligible students belonging to SC/ST/BC/Minority/EBC including Kapu students to pursue PG/Ph.D/MBBS courses in the academic year 2023-2024 in any one of the 21 broad categories of subjects in top 50 Institutions/Universities. 

Benefits
Scholarship Amount:
The selected candidates, whose admission is in the top 100 Institutions/Universities, shall be eligible for financial assistance of 100% of the tuition fee. In case of selection in the next 100 Institutions/Universities (i.e. 101 to 200 ranked Institutions/Universities), the selected student shall be eligible for, financial assistance of 50% of tuition fee or ₹ 5,00,000, whichever is less.
Four Installments: 
The scholarship shall be payable to the sanctioned students in their listed bank account in four equal installments in case of PG courses, as mentioned below:
1st Installment: It shall be payable to the students upon production of the landing permit / 1-94 card. (Immigration Card).
2nd Installment: It shall be payable to the students upon production of the 1st Semester/Term results.
3rd Installment: It shall be payable to the students upon production of the 2nd Semester/Term results.
4th Installment: The final installment shall be released after successful completion of the 4th/final Semester and uploading the 4th/final semester mark sheet in the concerned online portal.
Further Installments: In the case of Ph.D/MBBS courses, further installments will be released, based on the production of their preceding year/semester results.
Other Benefits:
One-way Economy Class Tickets (lowest fare tickets) for the shortest route shall be payable upon production of valid visa and admission particulars.
The Total Visa Fees shall be reimbursed to the student upon production of a valid visa and receipt of visa fee payment.
NOTE: Sanction Proceedings specifying the total eligible amount for the course shall be issued to the individual towards fees by way of a grant subject to his/her joining the Course and the Candidates selected by the Selection Committee. The Candidates can make the sanction proceedings used for obtaining a Visa from the respective Embassy.
Eligibility
Candidates should be natives of A.P.
Maximum age should not exceed 35 years as of the date of publication of notification.
Family income shall not exceed ₹ 8,00,000/- per annum.
Only one candidate per family is eligible.
The candidate who availed financial assistance under similar schemes from the State or Govt of India is not eligible under the scheme.

Qualification-Related Criteria:
For Post Graduate Courses: 60% marks or equivalent grade in foundation Degree in Engineering / Management / Pure Sciences /Agriculture Sciences / Medicine & Nursing /Social Sciences/Humanities.
For Ph.D. Course: 60% marks or equivalent grade in P.G course in Engineering / Management / Pure Sciences / Agriculture Sciences / Medicine / Social Sciences/ Humanities.
For MBBS Courses: 60% marks in Intermediate or equivalent courses.

Other Mandatory Requirements:
The Candidates are required to make their efforts in seeking admission to an accredited University/Institution abroad.
The selected candidate has to join the concerned university/institution within six months of the communication of selection under this scheme. On the expiry of this specified period of time, the sanction will get automatically canceled. No request for an extension of time for availing of the award is permissible under the Scheme.
The candidate shall not change the course of study or research for which the scholarship has been sanctioned.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration
Step 1: Visit the Official Website of Jnana Bhumi.
Step 2: Click the Registration tab.
Step 3: On this page, first click on the New Registration tab.
Step 4: Fill in all the mandatory details and click "Submit". Your Mobile Number and Email ID will be verified via OTP. Upon verification, you will be registered successfully. The Login Credentials will be mailed to the registered Email ID.
Application
Step 1: To apply for the scheme, log in on the official page.﻿ 
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory fields and upload the required documents in the file size and file type mentioned. Click "Submit". 
Step 3: On the next page, you'll be displayed your Reference ID, confirming a successful application. You will also receive a confirmation of successful application on your registered Email ID. Save the Reference ID for future reference and to check the payment status.
Note: Before applying for the scheme, the applicant must ensure the following:
Applicant Aadhar linked with bank account.
Have secured 60% or more in his final.
Family annual income is less than ₹ 8,00,000.
Has valid Income certificate, Caste certificate, and Nativity certificate.
Hold a valid passport and active bank account. 
Documents Required
Caste Certificate from the concerned Village/Ward Secretariat.
Income Certificate from the concerned Village/Ward Secretariat and physically certified by the concerned District Collector.
Ration Card of the Family of the Student, if available.
SSC Certificate / Birth Certificate (for the purpose of determining the eligible age prescribed for the scheme).
Aadshar Card
Nativity Certificate from the MeeSeva/Revenue Department.
Qualifying Intermediate/Degree/PG Certificate for admission to MBBS/PG Course/Ph.D. Course respectively.
Mark Sheet of Qualifying Examination (for proof of acquiring minimum prescribed marks).
TOEFL/IELTS/GRE/GMAT Score Sheet.
Unconditional Offer Letter from Foreign University.
NEET Score Card, in case of admission into MBBS Course.
Copy of the latest Tax Returns of Family Members, wherever applicable.
Nationalized Bank Account Details of Student.
Latest Passport Size Photo.
Scanned Signature.
Self-Certification from the student that no other member of his family availed financial assistance under a similar scheme from the state or central government and he/she also has not availed similar scheme from the state/central government previously.
