Higher Educational Finance Assistance Scheme (PBAOCWWB)
Puducherry
ConstructionDBTEducationStudentWorker
Details
The "Higher Educational Finance Assistance" is a Welfare Scheme by the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, financial assistance is extended to the wards of the Construction Workers who get admission into higher education programs through CENTAC, Puducherry. The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the ward of the worker. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
Qualification: M.B.B.S / B.D.S (CENTAC); Benefit: ₹ 1,00,000/- (One Time Payment).
Qualification: B.E. / B.Tech. (CENTAC); Benefit: ₹ 50,000/- (One Time Payment).
Qualification: Diploma in Engineering; Benefit: ₹ 20,000/- (One Time Payment).
Qualification: UG; Benefit: ₹ 2,000/- per annum.
Qualification: PG; Benefit: ₹ 4,000/- per annum.
Qualification: Diploma; Benefit: ₹ 2,000/- per annum.
Qualification: PG Diploma; Benefit: ₹ 3,000/- per annum.
Qualification: MD General Medicine & Related; Benefit: ₹ 1,00,000/- (One Time Payment).
Qualification: MS Orthopaedics & Related; Benefit: ₹ 1,00,000/- (One Time Payment).
Qualification: MD Clinical Pharmacology & Related; Benefit: ₹ 1,50,000/- (One Time Payment).
Qualification: M.Tech / M.E Engineering Courses; Benefit: ₹ 75,000/- (One Time Payment).
*The amount is credited through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into the bank account of the ward of the worker.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a citizen of India.
The applicant should be a Student.
The applicant should be a ward of a Construction Worker.
The Construction Worker should be registered as a Construction Worker with the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have secured admission into a higher education program through CENTAC, Puducherry.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The ward of the construction worker should visit the Office of the Puducherry Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (Industrial Estate, Thattanchavady, Puducherry - 605 009) and obtain the prescribed format of the application form free of cost from the concerned authority exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The ward of the construction worker should take print of the prescribed format of the application form provided in the section "Application for Welfare Benefits" on Page No. 91 of the Citizen's Charter.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The ward of the construction worker should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
For M.B.B.S / B.D.S (CENTAC), and B.E. / B.Tech. (CENTAC)
Last Subscription Bill.
Board ID Card.
Aadhaar Card.
Ration Card.
Provisionally Allotment Order through CENTAC.
Bank Pass Book.
Certificate from the Educational Institute.

For UG, PG, Diploma, Diploma in Engineering and PG Diploma
1. Last Subscription Bill.
2. Board ID Card.
3. Aadhaar Card.
4. Ration Card.
5. Bank Passbook.

For MD General Medicine & Related, MS Orthopaedics & Related, MD Clinical Pharmacology & Related, and M.Tech/M.E. Courses
1. Last Subscription Bill.
2. Board ID Card.
3. Aadhaar Card.
4. Ration Card.
5. Bank Pass Book.
6. Provisionally Allotment Order through NEET.
7. Admission Certificate from the Concerned Medical College.
