Winter Cropping & Development of Cultivable Land Scheme
Meghalaya
AgricultureCultivationFarmerFree Distribution Of InputsSubsidy On InputsTechnology SupportTraining
Details
The scheme “Winter Cropping & Development of Cultivable Land” was launched by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of Meghalaya. The objectives of the scheme are as follows:
To bring more areas under cultivation during the normally lean winter season under different crops other than paddy.
To increase production and productivity of various crops like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, and vegetables during Rabi Season.
Note: This availability of the above state plan scheme in any particular year is subject to the availability of funds and necessary sanction by the State Government. The continuation of any scheme in a particular year is also subject to the discretion of the State Government. Farmers are therefore advised to check the availability of any scheme with the respective District Agriculture Officers.

Benefits
Pattern of Assistance:
Training, Extension, Technology Support, and Subsidy on Inputs.
Type of Assistance and Entitlement (If any):
Free distribution of Agril inputs i.e. High Yielding Varieties, Seeds, bio-pesticides/bio-fertilizers/fencing materials.
Conduct of farmers' training/ awareness programme.
Construction of water conservation structures i.e. check dams, and water harvesting ponds to facilitate Rabi cultivation.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Meghalaya.
The applicant should be a bonafide farmer engaged in agriculture.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: The eligible bonafide farmer can apply/write an application on plain paper.
Step 02: Along with the application, attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents at the nearest office of the Horticulture Development Officer of a CD Block/Agriculture Circle.
Mode of Selection of Beneficiary(s):
The bonafide farmers shall be selected on a first come first serve basis.
Whom to Contact:
Sectoral Officer, Directorate of Agriculture
District Agriculture Officer of the concerned districts
Sub-Divisional Officer of the concerned sub-divisions
Agriculture Development Officer of the concerned Community and Rural Development Blocks
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity Proof
Documents proof of having sufficient available cultivable land
Any other document as required
