Go-Green Three Wheelers Scheme (GBOCWWB)
Gujarat
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerE-rickshawLabourPerson With DisabilityPwDSubsidyThree WheelersTricycle
Details
The “Go-Green Three Wheelers Scheme” is implemented by the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board (GBOCWWB), Labour, Skill Development & Employment Department, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, a one-time subsidy will be provided on the purchase of battery-operated tricycle (e-rickshaw) vehicles to registered construction disabled workers.
Objective:
If a registered construction worker becomes disabled or incapacitated due to an accident while working at a construction site, the income of the construction worker ceases. So the construction worker is permanently financially unable to support the family. In such a situation, the use of three-wheelers is intended to help the construction workers as a source of income so that they can find other employment and support their families.

Benefits
Under this scheme, a one-time subsidy will be available to the extent of 50% of the Ex-Showroom Price or ₹48,000/- whichever is less.
The assistance will also be available for the amount of Registration Fee and Road Tax paid for the first time of the new Three-Wheeler. (RTO Tax and Road Tax would be reimbursed as well.)
Note 01: The cost of the motor vehicle tax amount of the new three-wheeler, fixed by the State Government and at the prevailing rate applicable to persons with disabilities, will be borne by the registered disabled construction worker here.
Note 02: This additional subsidy will be provided in addition to the subsidy available under the electric vehicle-related schemes of Government.
Eligibility
The construction workers should be registered with the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board.
The registered construction workers who become disabled or incapacitated due to an accident while working at a construction site will be eligible to get the benefit of this scheme.
The registered construction disabled worker (Shramyogi) should have purchased a lithium-ion battery-operated vehicle in his own name.
The registered construction disabled worker (Shramyogi) should hold a tri-cycle license to operate a tri-cycle.
The benefit of this scheme will be available once per registered construction disabled worker.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits under the scheme, the applicants need to visit the nearest district office of the Gujarat Building and Other Construction Worker’s Welfare Board.
Step 02: Collect the application form and fill in all the details as required.
Step 03: Attach all the required documents and submit the application form to the concerned official at the district office.
Post-Application Process:
Step 01: The application form will be approved by District Nirikshak.
Step 02: Then it will be submitted to the State Project Manager of the Head office.
Step 03: It will then be approved by the Head Office Govt. Labour officer and then Member Secretary subsequently.
Step 04: After checking the online application made by the dealer approval of the Accounts Officer and Hon’ble Member Secretary, reimbursed amount.
Documents Required
Aadhaar card
e-Nirman Card
RTO of the registered construction worker
Copy of valid three-wheeler license
Certificate of incapacity from the Certifying Civil Surgeon
Any other documents as required
