Educational Assistance (ANBOCWWB)
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Building WorkerConstruction WorkerEducational AssistanceLabourScholarshipStudent
Details
The scheme “Educational Assistance” was started by the Andaman & Nicobar Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (ANBOCWWB), Department of Labour, Employment & Training, Andaman & Nicobar Administration. Under this scheme, an educational allowance will be provided to the son or daughter of a registered construction worker who is studying in any class from Class I to Post Graduate Level/Professional Course.

Benefits
Education Allowance shall be provided at the following rates:
Sl. No. Class/Course Amount of Educational Assistance
1 Class 1 to 5 ₹300/- per month
2 Class 6 to 8 ₹400/- per month
3 Class 9 to 12 ₹700/- per month
4 Diploma/Graduate Studies ₹900/- per month
5 Vocational Training through ITI ₹900/- per month
6 Post Graduate Studies ₹2,000/- per month
7 MBBS/BE MBBS/BE/Professional Course the Board shall incur the entire cost of study for meritorious students, on a case to case basis subject to approval of Andaman & Nicobar Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of the Union territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
The applicant should be engaged in any building & other construction work.
The applicant should be registered under the A&N Islands Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should have an active membership of the Board.
The son or daughter of the applicant/registered worker should be enrolled in any grade from Class I to Post Graduate Level/Professional Course.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Portal Registration Process:
Step 01: Visit online Portal: https://serviceonline.gov.in/login.do
Step 02: On the home page, click on ‘Register’ and fill in all the mandatory details.
Step 03: Click on the ‘Submit’ button and validate your Email ID & Mobile Number using OTP received.
Step 04: After successful validation, the applicant will be registered.
Registration Process of Construction Workers under A&N Islands Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board:
Step 01: Applicant can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the “Registration of Construction Workers in AN BOCWWB” and then click to proceed registration process.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 07: Preview the form and click on ‘Submit’.
Step 08: After successful registration, the applicant will receive a registration ID. 
Application Process for Educational Financial Assistance:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, the applicants can login through their email ID that is used while registering
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha
Step 03: Click on ‘Login’
Step 04: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 05: Now, search for the ‘Educational Financial Assistance’ and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 07: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Application Tracking:
Step 01: To track the application status, the applicant can visit the online Portal and login through their ‘User ID’ & ‘Password’.
Step 02: On the home page, click on “View Application Status’ and then click on ‘Track Application Status’.
Step 03: Enter the Application Reference Number and click on ‘Get Data’ to know the status of your application.
Documents Required
Documents required for registration:
Passport size photograph
Proof of age
Identity proof
Details of EPF, if any
Proof of address
90 Days Work Duration Certificate issued by the competent authority
Bank account details
Any other document as required
Documents required for Welfare Scheme:
Registration ID Card of Worker
Identity proof of worker i.e. Aadhaar Card
Latest Subscription Receipt
Educational certificate of student
Address proof
Certificate from the school/institution
Bank account details of worker/Copy of passbook
Any other document as required
