Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Bal Seva Yojana
Madhya Pradesh
Children CareEducactionFinancial Support
Details
The Madhya Pradesh government launched the Mukhyamantri Covid-19 Bal Seva Yojana under the Women and Child Development Department. Under this scheme, a pension on monthly basis will be provided to all those children whose parents or guardians have died due to coronavirus infection. This pension will be provided till the child attains the age of 21 years. Apart from this, education and ration facilities will also be provided. All those children whose parents or guardians have died between March 1, 2020, and July 31 will be able to avail the benefits of this scheme. Only the natives of the state can avail the benefit of this scheme.

Benefits
Financial Assistance:
Each child beneficiary receives ₹5,000/- per month deposited in a joint account until they turn 18.
Guardian and child receive free monthly ration under National Food Security Act.

Education Assistance:
School Education:
Free education in government schools.
Fees paid for RTE provision private schools.
RTE reimbursement limit for other private schools.
Class 9 to 12:
Free education in government schools.
₹10,000/- per year for private school students.
Additional to scholarships and other benefits.
Higher Education:
General Courses.
Full fee assistance in government/aided universities.
Up to ₹15,000/- fee reimbursement in private universities.
Technical Education:
Full fee assistance in government/aided colleges.
Up to ₹1,50,000/- per year or actual fee in private colleges (JEE Mains/separate entrance exam).
Up to ₹75,000/- per year or actual fee in private colleges (12th class exam).
Medical Education and AYUSH:
Full fee assistance in government/private colleges based on NEET score.
Doctors serve in rural areas for 2-5 years (bond required).
Eligibility
The affected family should be a local resident of Madhya Pradesh.
The family should not be eligible to avail the benefits of Chief Minister Covid-19 Yodha Kalyan Yojana.
The deceased parents of the child beneficiary should not have been government servants or employees of a government undertaking who were eligible to receive pension under the old pension scheme.
Such boys/girls whose age is 21 years or less, but till the prescribed duration of graduation course, whichever is less and whose-
Parent has died from COVID-19 or
Parents have died earlier and their legal guardian has died due to Covid-19.
One of the parents has died in the past and now the other has died of Covid-19.
Only During from 01 March 2021 to 30 June 2021
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: First of all applicant need to go to the official website of the Chief Minister COVID-19 Child Welfare Scheme.
Step-2: After this, you will have to click on the option "Aavedan kare"
Step-3: Now the home page will open in front of you click on "SignUP"
Step-4: Now you will have to enter your name, mobile number, email ID, password, etc.
Step-5: Now you have to click on the register option.

Apply
Step-1: First of all you have to go to the official website of the Chief Minister COVID-19 Child Welfare Scheme.
Step-2: After this, you will have to click on the option "Aavedan kare"
Step-3: you will have to click on the login option.
Step-4: Now you have to enter your mobile number and password.
Step-5: After this you have to click on the submit option.
Step-6  Now you have to click on the option of Chief Minister Covid-19 Child Welfare Scheme.
Step-7: Now the application form will open in front of you.
Step-8: You have to enter all the important information asked in the application form such as your name, email ID, mobile number etc.
Step-9: Now you have to upload all the important documents.
Step-10: After this you have to click on the submit option.
Documents Required
Death certificate of the deceased person.
Birth/age certificate of beneficiary children.
Bank Details (Passbook/cancelled cheque).
Photograph in max 700 KB and only JPG/JPEG/PNG/PDF format.
Copy of guardian's identity card-
Driving license.
PAN card.
Ration card.
Voter ID or copy of any other identity card.
