"Capital Investment Subsidy: 5% Additional Capital Investment Subsidy to Karaikal Region" under "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries"
Puducherry
BusinessIndustryInvestmentMachinerySubsidy
Details
The "Capital Investment Subsidy: 5% Additional Capital Investment Subsidy to Karaikal Region" is a Component of the "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries" Scheme by the Department of Industrial Development (Industries and Commerce), Union Territory of Puducherry. Through this scheme, 5% Additional Incentive on the Existing Subsidy Schemes is provided to the Units in Karaikal Region. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department.

Benefits
5% Additional Incentive on the Existing Subsidy Schemes to the Units in Karaikal Region:
30% subject to a limit of ₹30,00,000/- in case of SC/ST/Women Entrepreneurs.
25% subject to a limit of ₹25,00,000/- for IT Industries.
40% subject to a limit of ₹35,00,000/- for Small and Micro Thrust Area Enterprises.
25% Subject to a Maximum of ₹25,00,000/- for Medium and Large Thrust Area Enterprises.
The priority industries which will be announced by Government and set up in Karaikal district shall be eligible for subsidy at the rate of 25% on fixed asset viz., land, building and plant and machinery subject to a maximum of ₹40,00,000/-.
Eligibility
The applicant should have an industrial unit in the Karaikal Region of Puducherry.
The applicant should have a priority industry announced by Government and set up in Karaikal.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The industrial unit should register the claim for the grant of incentive/subsidy in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
*The State Level Committee will go into the merits of each case to decide whether the unit qualifies for the grant of incentive/subsidy.

Application Deadline
For New Units
Within one year from the date of commencement of obtaining the Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2/ Permanent Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
For Existing Units
Within one year of completion of Expansion/ Diversification/ Modernization.
Documents Required
General Documents
Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2 (UAM/ PMT) Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
Caste certificate from the competent authority in the case of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) Entrepreneurs.
Loan Sanction Letter.
Scheme-Specific Documents
Registered Land Document.
Plan Approval from the Pollution Control Board (PPA).
Engineer’s Certificate for Building Valuation Assessed by Public Works Department (PWD)/Pondicherry Industrial Promotion Development and Investment Corporation (PIPDIC).
Registered Lease Agreement for the Building Executed Between the Developer and the Unit.
Purchase Invoices for Plant & Machinery/ Pollution Equipment/ Generator.
Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Investment in Fixed Assets / Pollution Control Equipment / Generator.
Certificate for the Installation of Pollution Control Equipment Obtained from the Directorate of Sustainable Technologies and Environmental (DSTE).
Air/Water Consent Orders Obtained from DSTE.
Notary Affidavit.
Case-Specific Documents
In the case of Second Hand Machinery, an affidavit stating that the subsidy has not been availed of from the Central Government or any State or Union Territories.
