"Infrastructure Subsidy" under "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries"
Puducherry
EntrepreneurshipIndustryInfrastructureSubsidy
Details
The "Infrastructure Subsidy" is a Component of the "Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries" Scheme by the Industries and Commerce Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. 25% subsidy is provided to the industrial units who have made investments on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department.

Benefits
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/-. For the infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to IT industries.
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/-. For the industrial unit, which is investing for construction of factory building of not less than 50,000 sq.ft for setting up of the IT industries.
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/-. For the infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to the bio-technology industries.
25% subsidy subject to a maximum of ₹50,00,000/-. For the bio-technology industry unit which has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 5,000 sq. ft for self-occupation.

Number of Installments
The subsidy shall be disbursed in annual installment not exceeding ₹25,00,000/- per annum till completion of the total eligible subsidy.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to IT industries.
OR
The applicant should be an industrial unit, which is investing for construction of factory building of not less than 50,000 sq.ft for setting up of the IT industries.
OR
The applicant should be an infrastructure developer who has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 50,000 sq. ft. constructed area, for leasing out to the bio-technology industries.
OR
The applicant should be a bio-technology industry unit which has made investment on building with a minimum extent of 5,000 sq. ft for self-occupation.
*The subsidy would be eligible for the investment made on building on or after 31-7-2006.
*For the purpose of this scheme, "IT industries" mean Manufacturers of Computer Systems, Software/Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES), Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) and Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO).
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The industrial unit should register the claim for the grant of incentive/subsidy in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The unit should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgement from the concerned authority to whom the application form has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable). 
*The State Level Committee will go into the merits of each case to decide whether the unit qualifies for the grant of incentive/subsidy.

Application Deadline
For New Units
Within one year from the date of commencement of obtaining the Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2/ Permanent Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
For Existing Units
Within one year of completion of Expansion/ Diversification/ Modernization.
Documents Required
1. Entrepreneurs Memorandum Part-2 (UAM/ PMT) Registration/ Commencement of Production Certificate.
2. Caste certificate from the competent authority in the case of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) Entrepreneurs.
3. Loan Sanction Letter.
4. Registered Land Document.
5. Plan Approval from the Pollution Control Board (PPA).
6. Engineer’s Certificate for Building Valuation Assessed by Public Works Department (PWD)/Pondicherry Industrial Promotion Development and Investment Corporation (PIPDIC).
7. Registered Lease Agreement for the Building Executed Between the Developer and the Unit.
8. Purchase Invoices for Plant & Machinery/ Pollution Equipment/ Generator.
9. Chartered Accountant Certificate for the Investment in Fixed Assets / Pollution Control Equipment / Generator.
10. Certificate for the Installation of Pollution Control Equipment Obtained from the Directorate of Sustainable Technologies and Environmental (DSTE).
11. Air/Water Consent Orders Obtained from DSTE.
12. Notary Affidavit.
