"Outstanding Artisan of the Year" under “Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - State Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises”
Puducherry
ArtisanAwardEntrepreneurExhibitionHandicraft
Details
"Outstanding Artisan of the Year" under “Motivation of Entrepreneurs to Start Industries and Fiscal Assistance to Industries - State Awards to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises” is a scheme by the Industries and Commerce Department, Union Territory of Puducherry. The award is conferred upon the artisan who has been a participant for 3 years in National / International handicraft exhibitions/fairs. The awardee is given a cash award of ₹2,00,000/- and a citation. The applications are accepted offline in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Department.

Benefits
Cash Award of ₹2,00,000/- and a Citation.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Artisan.
The applicant should have been a participant for 3 years in National / International handicraft exhibitions/fairs.
Application Process
Offline
The Director of Industries will invite the application for award by wide publicity.
Step 1: The artisan should apply for the award in the prescribed form available on the Official Website of the Directorate of Industries and Commerce, Puducherry.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The artisan should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority either in person or by post.
Post-Application Process
Step 1: The applications shall be scrutinised by the Directorate of Industries and Commerce on a merit basis for the grant of state awards will be placed before the award Committee.
Step 2: The Committee for the awards will go into the merits of each case for granting the award.
Step 3: The list of selected artisans shall be notified and informed by the Director of Industries to the enterprises to receive the awards.
Documents Required
Proof of participation in National / International handicraft exhibitions/fairs.
Any other document, as required by the Award Committee.
