Financial Assistance To Pre-primary School In Remote Areas
Goa
RefreshmentRemunerationSchoolTrainingTribal
Details
The scheme "Financial Assistance to Pre-Primary School in Remote Areas" by the Department of Tribal Welfare, Government of Goa provides financial assistance to set up pre-primary schools in the remote tribal areas which lack the facility of pre-primary education for the tribal population. Financial assistance in the form of rent amount payable for the premises, fixed remuneration to one Teacher, one helper, teaching aid/equipment, toys, and mid-meal will be provided under this scheme.

Benefits
Rent
Up to ₹ 2,000/- per month recurring expenditure depending upon the quality of the facility.

Snacks
₹ 300/- per month per student as refreshment expenses

Teaching Aids/ Toys and Other Teaching Materials
Fixed Amount of ₹ 25,000/- for the first year. 
For the next four years, ₹ 15,000/- per annum for Toys and other teaching material.

Remuneration of Trained Teacher
Fixed Remuneration of ₹ 10,000/- per month for Trained Teacher (₹ 8,000/- per month if the Teacher is untrained).
Every year, an incremental rise of 10% to the remuneration of the trained Teacher, subject to satisfactory performance during the preceding year. 
One additional Teacher will be sanctioned in cases where the number of ST students exceeds 20 to form a separate class.

Remuneration of the Helper
The rate prescribed under the minimum wages Act and as revised by the Government under the Minimum Wages Act from time to time. 
One additional Helper will be sanctioned in cases where the number of ST students exceeds 20 to form a separate class.

Mode of Disbursal
The amount of benefit will be transferred electronically to the Bank Account of the beneficiaries.
Eligibility
There should not be a pre-primary school already existing in the locality.
The school should have at least ten (10) Scheduled Tribe (ST) students in a class of twenty (20) students, to avail the benefit of one post of teacher and one post of Helper.
Educational Qualification/Training for the Trained Teacher will be as per the eligibility requirements fixed by the Education Department for Primary Teachers/Pre-Primary Teachers. 
In case no trained teacher is available in that particular locality, the Government may consider the appointment of an untrained teacher. The untrained teacher shall obtain the necessary qualification within a period of 3 years.

Agencies/ Individuals
1. Existing Primary Schools including Government Primary schools/ High Schools from the locality.
2. NGO with three years of experience in the line of managing pre-primary schools.
3. Trained teacher having experience in teaching pre-primary students.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested persons/ agencies should visit the Department of Tribal Welfare, Govt. of Goa, Shram Shakti Bhavan,
5th Floor, Patto, Panaji-Goa, - 403 001.
Step 2: Take a print of the proforma of the application form, or request a hard copy from the concerned authority.
Step 3: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest if required).
Step 4: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Director.

Scrutiny and Sanction
The applications received will be scrutinized by the Director of Tribal Welfare and will be placed before the state-level committee for consideration of the cases.
Documents Required
1. Resolution of the Gramsabha/Village Panchayat.
2. NOC / Lease agreement of the owner of the premises in which the Pre-primary school will be set up.
3. Experience certificate of the applicant/ agency.
4. List of the Scheduled Tribe Students who would be admitted to the Pre-primary school in prescribed Proforma.
5. Name and other details of the Teacher/Helper in the prescribed proforma.
6. Application for registration of Pre-Primary School with the Education Department.
