One Time Cash Incentive towards Completing ITI, Typewriting, Accountancy, Bookkeeping, Tailoring, Computer Training (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
ComputerEducationEx-ServicemanITISkillTrainingWidow
Details
"One Time Cash Incentive towards Completing ITI, Typewriting, Accountancy, Bookkeeping, Tailoring, Computer Training" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, up to ₹10,000/- is provided to the unemployed Ex-servicemen (ESM) / Widow of the ESM / Dependent of the Widow of the ESM, to pursue the mentioned programs/courses from a Government-recognized School/Institution, upon prior permission from the Department. The application should be submitted offline within three months from the date of successful completion of the course.

Benefits
The actual cost of the program/course or ₹10,000/- is provided to the beneficiary.
The amount, as decided by the Management Committee, is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT
Eligibility
The applicant should be an Ex-serviceman/Widow of the ESM/Dependent of the Widow of the ESM.
The applicant should be registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
If the ESM is the applicant, he/she should have become unemployed within three years of discharge from service.
The applicant should have obtained prior permission from the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The course/program should be one of the following: ITI, Typewriting, Accountancy, Bookkeeping, Tailoring, Computer Training.
The course/program should be done from a Government-recognized School/Institution.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.
*The application should be submitted within three months from the date of successful completion of the course.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
Identity Card of the ESM / Widow of the ESM / Dependent of the Widow of the ESM.
Discharge Certificate of the ESM.
Fee Receipt.
Proof of Successful Completion of the Course.
Declaration.
