Funeral Grant (Sainik Welfare)
Puducherry
DeathESMEx-ServicemanFuneralWidow
Details
"Funeral Grant" is a Welfare Scheme by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund of the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. Through this scheme, funeral Assistance of ₹12,000/- or ₹10,000/- is provided in the event of death of the ex-Serviceman (ESM) or of the Widow of the ESM respectively. This scheme applies only to the Ex-servicemen/Widows of Ex-servicemen registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry. The applications are accepted offline.

Benefits
In case of death of the ESM, ₹12,000/- is provided to the ESM's Widow.
In the case of the death of the Widow of the ESM, ₹10,000/- is provided to a member of the ESM's family.
The assistance is provided immediately on occurrence with permission for burial/cremation from the appropriate authority (Death Certificate not required).
The amount is credited to the beneficiary’s Bank Account through RTGS/ NEFT.
Eligibility
In case of death of the ESM, the applicant should be the ESM's Widow.
In case of death of the Widow of the ESM, the applicant should be any other member of the ESM's family.
The deceased ESM/ deceased Widow of the ESM, in their lifetime, should have been registered with the Department of Sainik Welfare, Puducherry.
The scope of this scheme will also apply to those ESM / living spouse/widows who are re-employed as regular / deemed to be regular in Government/Public Sector Undertakings/Private Organizations and self-employed IT assesses.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form for the concerned scheme from the Official Website of the Department of Sainik Welfare.
OR
The interested applicant should visit (on a working day, and during working hours) the Rajya Sainik Board, Jawan Bhawan, Department of Sainik Welfare, Government of Puducherry, 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puducherry Road, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India, and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the concerned authority.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: The interested applicant should submit the duly filled and signed application form and the documents to the concerned authority at the Rajya Sainik Board.
Step 4: A receipt of the application will be assigned to the applicant by the concerned authority.

Queries/Complaints/Suggestions/Grievances
Address: 261, Lawspet Main Road, Pakkamudianpet, Puduchery Rd, Lawspet, Puducherry - 605013, India
Phone Number: (+91)(0413) 2253107
Email: dirdsw.pon@nic.in
Hours: Monday - Friday, 2:30 pm to 5:00 pm
Documents Required
ESM Identity Card.
Death Certificate of the ESM/ ESM's Widow (Optional).
Certificate to remove the Body, issued by the competent authority/Death certificate
Consent Letter from the NOKs, for disbursement of death grant to the applicant (In case of death of widow or Ex-Servicemen whose wife predeceased).
Discharge Certificate (The address mentioned in the Discharge Certificate must be of Puducherry Union Territory).
