Naye Fal Bagicho Ki Sthapana
Rajasthan
AgricultureFarmerFruitsGarden
Details
The "Naye Fal Bagecho Ki Sthapana" under the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government Increases farmers' income by facilitating the cultivation of high-value fruit crops that have a potentially higher market demand and profitability compared to traditional crops. Extend financial support and subsidies to smallholder farmers to facilitate the establishment of new orchards, enabling them to access resources and inputs required for fruit cultivation.

Important points
It will be mandatory to install drip plants in gardens. Fruit plants will be made available to the farmers only after the establishment of the drip plant.
Farmers of tribal areas will be exempted from the requirement of a drip irrigation system if they plant gardens in less than 0.4-hectare area.
NHB for the establishment of fruit orchards. The subsidy will be given on purchasing saplings from Accredited Nursery/Ramhans Nursery/Government Undertaking/Agricultural Universities/Agriculture Colleges/Semi-Government, Government of India institutions/Research Centers/Farm or any other government institution and planting a garden.
After physical verification, the grant amount will be paid directly into the farmer's bank account.

Benefits
For high-value and common interval crops, the maximum grant amount is 50% of the unit cost, up to a maximum of Rs. 30,000/- per hectare.
For intensive horticultural orchards, the maximum grant amount is 40% of the unit cost, up to a maximum of Rs. 40,000/- per hectare.
A farmer will be given a grant for a minimum of 0.4 hectares and a maximum of 4.0 hectares area.
Small/marginal farmers are eligible for an additional 25% grant.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a farmer.
The applicant should be a native of Rajasthan.
The applicant must have agricultural land ownership and irrigation sources.
Farmers with land between 0.4 and 4 hectares are eligible for the grant.
For Scheduled Caste/Tribe farmers and tribal areas, the minimum area limit is 0.2 hectares.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: Click on the option “Register”.
Step-3: Then you will be redirected to the SSO registration page. The registration page will appear with the following options.
  Citizen
Step-4: Choose the either one option from  the Jan Aadhaar Or Google to process further.
Jan Aadhaar : Enter the Jan Aadhaar number, click on the ‘Next’ button,
Select your name, the name of the head of the family and all the other members and 
Click on the ‘Send OTP’ button. Enter the ‘OTP’ and 
Click on the ‘Verify OTP’ button to Complete the registration. 
Google : Enter the Gmail ID, click on the ‘Next’ button, 
Enter the password.
A new link appear on screen, now click on new SSO link.
SSO id will appear on screen, now create the password.
Enter Mobile number, click on registration.
Step-5: Complete the registration process.

Apply
Step-1: Applicant have to visit the official portal. 
Step-2: After login, dashboard will open.
Step-3: Click on “ RAJ-KISAN ” option. 
Step-4: In "Farmer", click on "Application Entry Request".
Step-5: Enter the "Bhamashah ID" or "Janaadhaar ID" and search.  
Step-6: Select the person's name and scheme name. 
Step-7: Complete the Aadhaar Authentication and click on Get details. 
Step-8: Provide the required details.
            - Pensioner Details.
            - Bank Details.
            - Disability Details.
            - Verification Details.
            - Upload Documents.
Step-9: Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar Card / Janadhar Card
Copy of Jamabandi (not more than six months old).
Passport-size photo.
Copy of Bank Passbook.
