Dr. P. G. Solanki Scheme for Loan/Assistance to Law Graduates of Scheduled Caste
Gujarat
Financial AssistanceLaw GraduateLoanScheduled Caste
Details
The scheme “Dr. P. G. Solanki Scheme for Loan/Assistance to Law Graduates of Scheduled Caste” was launched by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme was launched in the year 1973. Under this scheme, law graduates belonging to the Scheduled Caste who intend to start independent legal practice will receive financial assistance for the purchase of business premises/shops. 

Benefits
Under the scheme, A Law graduates belonging to Scheduled Caste intending to start legal practice will be given ₹12,000/-; out of which ₹7,000/- will be @4% interest loan, and ₹5,000/- will be a subsidy.
The loan is provided to purchase business premises/shops.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a Law graduate.
The applicant should belong to the Scheduled Caste category.
The benefit of this scheme will be given only to natives of Gujarat state.
The annual family income of the applicant limit should not exceed ₹6,00,000/- for rural areas and ₹6,00,000/- for urban areas.
Note: Registration number and date received from Bar Council (to be attached with attested copy of registration certificate).
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10:  Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual  
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Caste Certificate
Proof of annual income of the family
Proof of Residence (Any one of Electricity Bill/License/Rent Agreement/Electoral Card/Ration Card)
Surety Bond (as per Form-A)
Receipt of registration copy/fee payment from Bar Council
Rent slip of office premises for one year
Certificate of class and marks obtained in the examination
If you have legal experience, give a certificate
Copy of first page of Bank Passbook/Cancelled Check (in applicant's name)
Any other documents as required
