Coaching Assistance Scheme for Preparation of Recruitment Exams for Scheduled Caste Students
Gujarat
Coaching AssistanceGovernment ExamsPreparationScheduled CasteStudent
Details
The scheme “Coaching Assistance Scheme for Preparation of Recruitment Exams for Scheduled Caste Students” was launched by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. The scheme was launched during the year 2017-18. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to Students of the Scheduled Castes category who are preparing for all State Government and Central Government Recruitment Examinations of Class– 1, 2 & 3 conducted by UPSC/GPSC/State Commission/Bank/LIC/Subordinate Services Selection Board/District Panchayat Selection Board.

Benefits
Under this scheme, ₹20,000/- or the actual fee to be paid, whichever is less.
The assistance amount is directly credited to the student's bank account through DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer).
Eligibility
Eligibility Criteria for Student:
The students should belong to Scheduled Castes Category.
The student should have passed the graduation exam with 50% or more marks.
The age limit will be a maximum of 35 years for males and a maximum of 40 years for females.
The applicant or the applicant's parents should not be in government employment.
The applicant will not be able to pursue full-time studies, job/business, etc. at any other place during the training.
The benefit of this scheme will be available to the applicant only once.
Note: After receiving the coaching, the details of which examination the student himself/herself has given should be sent from time to time to the concerned Deputy Director, Office of Scheduled Caste Welfare.
Eligibility Criteria for Institution:
The Institution should have more than three years of experience.
The Institution should have a GST Number/PAN Card.
Institutions should have biometric (fingerprint) machines for student attendance.
For competitive recruitment examinations, the faculty should have at least graduation and general knowledge.
A training institution should be registered under any one of the following Acts.
Mumbai Public Trust Act, 1950
Companies Act, 1956
Shops and Establishments Act, 1948
Application Process
Online
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste, etc. and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10: Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
Note 01: The student has to apply online to avail of this scheme. Students who are approved online by the concerned Deputy Director, Office of Scheduled Castes Welfare after applying online will be paid after completion of training.
Note 02: The coaching assistance will be paid as per the rules (taking into consideration the provision and target) only to the meritorious beneficiaries after the applications submitted on the said portal are merited as per the rules from the state level.
User Manual
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Caste Certificate
Certificates in which percentage can be calculated including the last mark sheet of graduation passed
Proof of Residence (Any one of Electricity Bill/License/Lease Agreement/Electoral Card/Ration Card)
Income certificate
Copy of first page of Bank Passbook/Cancelled Check (in applicant's name)
A photograph showing the board of the institution to which admission is sought
A certificate/letter from the institution in which the individual wants to study
Any other documents as required
Application Attachments
