Bal Sakha Yojana Scheme
Gujarat
Bal Sakha Yojana SchemeChild HealthChild ProtectionNational Health MissionPrimary Healthcare Services
Details
Detailed 
The Bal Sakha Yojana is a community-based program that aims to provide support to children in need of care and protection. The scheme is implemented by the Department of Women and Child Development in collaboration with the NHM and the State Child Protection Society.
A network of trained volunteers called "Bal Sakhis" are deployed in villages and urban areas to identify and report cases of child abuse, neglect, and exploitation. 
The Bal Sakhis also provide support to families in need of assistance to ensure the well-being of their children. The scheme also provides financial assistance to children in need of care and protection.
The scheme is targeted towards vulnerable children in the age group of 0-18 years, especially those from socially and economically disadvantaged backgrounds. The Bal Sakha Yojana aims to ensure the overall development and well-being of children by providing them with necessary support and protection.

Benefits
Benefits
The Bal Sakha Yojana provides expert care to newborn babies to ensure child health
Under this scheme, the paediatrician attends all eligible newborns at the place of birth and has to ensure their survival by providing early neonatal care including immunizations at birth, nutrition advice.
Eligibility
Eligibility
Children born in a private hospital or in a government healthcare institution running Chiranjeevi Yojana that child is eligible.
All newborn babies belonging to BPL or APL and tribal categories are eligible for Bal Sakha Yojana.
Middle class (with an annual income limit of Rs. 2 lakhs).
Children who are born at home, a subcenter or a PHC are eligible.
Application Process
Offline
Application Process
Women can contact primary social workers ASHA present in all village and urban area
Anganwadi centres
Women can contact to District Development officer or Chief District Health Officer if she faces any obstacles while availing the of benefits.
Documents Required
List of the required documents 
The women are required to have BPL or APL ration cards.
Tribal certificate.
Authorization by a locally recognized authority.
The application form is available from the hospital itself.
Income certificate of parents up to Rs. 2 lakhs.
Aadhar card.
