Poompuhar State Award
Tamil Nadu
ArtisansAwardCraftsFinancial Assistance
Details
The "Poompuhar State Award" scheme was launched by the Department of Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles & Khadi, Government of Tamil Nadu. The best artisans who have contributed to the development of the crafts of Tamil Nadu are selected and given a cash prize of ₹50,000/, a 4-gram gold medal, tamirapathiram and a certificate. The economically backward awardees are also eligible for a monthly pension of ₹3,500/- after completion of 60 years of age.

Benefits
Cash Prize of ₹50,000/-.
4-gram Gold Medal.
Thamirapathiram.
Certificate.
Monthly Pension of ₹3,500/- to the economically backward awardee.
Eligibility
The applicant should be an artisan.
The applicant should be a native of Tamil Nadu.
The applicant should be above 30 years of age. For monthly pension, the applicant should be 60 years or above in age.
The experience of the artisans and the service rendered by them in their profession will be taken into consideration during the passing (The artisans participating in the Award will be invited for process explanation and interview if required by the headquarters to test their skills).
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents (during office hours, Monday-Friday) to the Poombukar Head Office Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, 759, Anna Road, Chennai - 600 002. 
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
NOTE 1: Advertisements are released during June month every year.
NOTE 2: No need to send award material with the application.
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Address Proof.
Aadhaar Card.
Front Page of Passbook.
Craftsman Service photograph.
Certificate of Any Person (Well-wisher/Personally aware).
Artisan's Affidavit on ₹20/- Stamp Paper, attested by a First Class Criminal Judge or Notary Public.
Recommendation Certificate, attested by any of the Managers of Poombucar Outlets and Manufacturing Plants / the respective Area Assistant Directors (Handicrafts / Craft Council (Tamil Nadu/India/World) under the Office of the Development Commissioner, New Delhi.
Photograph of the applicant at each stage of production of the product for the award/Video.
