Pichda Varg Post Matric Chhatravritti
Madhya Pradesh
Financial SupportScholarshipsStudent
Details
Pichda Varg Post Matric Chhatravritti under the Higher Education Department of Madhya Pradesh Goverment provides financial assistance to economically disadvantaged students belonging to these marginalized communities. The scheme helps alleviate financial burdens associated with tuition fees, maintenance allowances, and other incidental expenses. Enabling access to education for these underprivileged groups promotes social equity and empowers them to pursue higher studies and better livelihood opportunities. 

Benefits
Monthly subsistence allowance :
Class Hostel room Non-hosteler
Graduate ₹400/- ₹230/-
Postgraduate ₹450/- ₹230/-
M.Phil, P.H. D. ₹850/- ₹380/-

Important Point
Reimbursement of non-refundable fees compulsorily paid by the student.
Reimbursement of full tuition fees and other mandatory fees to the students of self-financed courses run in government colleges/government universities.
Payment of fees for enrolment/registration, tuition, sports, uniform, library, magazines, medical check-up,s etc.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh belonging to a backward class.
The applicant should be passed in the previous class.
The total annual income of parents/guardians should not exceed ₹3,00,000/-.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-1: Go to the official website of "State Scholarship Portal 2.0" 
using a web browser.
Step-2: Look for the option that says "Register yourself"
 on the homepage and click on it.
Step-3: Read the registration guidelines carefully before proceeding. then click Continue.
Step-4: Fill in the required details accurately in the registration form. This typically includes personal information such as
           - Scholarship Category
           - State
           -  Name 
           -  Date of birth 
           -  Gender 
            -  Contact details, etc.
Step-5: Click submit Register and you get your Student application ID.

Apply
Step-1: Go to the official website of "State Scholarship Portal 2.0" using a web browser.
Step-2:  click on Login
Step-3:  After that enter you
              - Application ID.
              - Password
              - Captcha
Step-4: Click Login and select your scheme name.
Step-5: After clicking your scheme name then enter your name father's name, samgra ID, Aadhar number, bank account etc.
Step-6: Now upload your photo signature and important documents.
Step-7: Remember, the fields marked with an asterisk (*) are mandatory.
Step-8: After filling in all your information details and uploading the documents click submit 
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Bank account statement.
Mark sheet.
Address proof.
Proof of income.
Passport-size photograph.
Mobile number.
