Coaching Assistance to Scheduled Castes Students for Preparation of Examination Like IIM, NIFT, NLU, CEPT
Gujarat
CEPTCoachingIIMNIFTNLUScheduled CasteStudent
Details
The scheme “Coaching Assistance to Scheduled Castes Students for Preparation of Examination Like IIM, NIFT, NLU, CEPT” was launched by the Director Scheduled Caste Welfare, Department of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of Gujarat. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to Students of the Scheduled Castes category who are preparing for examinations like IIM, NIFT, NLU, and CEPT.

Benefits
Under this scheme, ₹20,000/- or the actual coaching fee to be paid, whichever is less.
Eligibility
Eligibility Criteria for Student:
The students should belong to Scheduled Caste Category.
A student should have secured 70% or more in Class 10th and studying in Class 12th (any stream) to get admission in CEPT, NIFT, or NLU.
To get admission in IIMs: Students should have secured 70% or more in Class 12th (any stream) and be in the third year of graduation (any stream) or should have secured 70% or more marks in graduation if completed graduation.
There is no income limit.
Eligibility Criteria for Institute:
The organization should have more than three years of experience.
The organization should have a GST Number/PAN card.
Institutions should have biometric (fingerprint) machines for student attendance.
The training institute should be registered under any one of the following Acts.
Mumbai Public Trust Act, 1950
Companies Act, 1956
Shop and Establishment Act, 1948 (Shops and Institutions Act, 1948)
Application Process
Online
Offline
Step 01: The eligible applicant may visit the e-Samaj Kalyan Portal: https://esamajkalyan.gujarat.gov.in/
Step 02: On the home page, under the tab ‘Citizen Login’, click on New User ‘Please Register Here’.
Step 03: Enter your Full Name as per Aadhaar Card, Gender, Date of Birth, Aadhaar Card Number, Email ID, Caste etc., and then click on ‘Register’.
Step 04: After successful registration, the applicants can login through their User ID and Password.
Step 05: Now, click on ‘User Profile’ to update your profile.
Step 06: Fill in all the mandatory information and then click on ‘Update’. 
Step 07: After updating the profile successfully, select the scheme appearing on the home page; an application form will open.
Step 08: Fill in all the mandatory details in the application form and upload all the relevant documents.
Step 09: Now agree with the terms & conditions and click on ‘Save Application’.
Step 10:  Submit the application form and take out the print of the application for future reference. The applicant can note down the application number to track the application status by logging into the portal using their User ID and Password.
User Manual  
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph
Aadhaar Card of the applicant
Caste Certificate
Proof of Residence (Any one of Electricity Bill/Licence/Rent Agreement/Electoral Card/Ration Card)
SSC Marksheets
Certificate (Bonafide) regarding the school he/she is studying in Class-12
Copy of the first page of Bank Passbook / Cancelled Check (in applicant's name)
A photograph showing the board of the institution to which admission is sought
Regular certificate from the institution in which you want to study
Any other documents as required
