Savitribai Jyotirao Phule Fellowship For Single Girl Child
Ministry of Education
FellowshipGirl ChildPh.D.
Details
Savitribai Jyotirao Phule Fellowship for Single Girl Child (SJSGC) is a Fellowship Scheme by the University Grants Commission (UGC), Department of Higher Education, for pursuing research work leading to the award of a Ph.D. degree. The target group of this scheme are the ‘single girl child’, i.e. the only girl child in the family without having any brother or sister. A girl scholar who is one of the twin daughters/fraternal daughters is also eligible to apply for fellowship under the scheme. The number of slots for the fellowship will be decided every year on the basis of eligible applications complete in all respects, received through online mode.

Objectives of the Scheme - 
i. To support the higher education of single girl children in Social Sciences.
ii. To recognize the value of observance of the small family norm.
iii. To recognize the norm of single girl children in society.
iv. To propagate the concept of single girl child norm.
v. To promote single girls in society.

Benefits
TENURE OF FELLOWSHIP:

The tenure of the fellowship is for five years and will be effective from 1st April of the selection year or the actual date of joining under the fellowship in the University/College/Institute, whichever is later. Fellowship will be granted upto the date of submission of Ph.D. Thesis or 5 years of tenure whichever is earlier. No extension is permissible beyond the total period of five years, and the fellow ceases to be a UGC research fellow immediately after the expiry of the due date.

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE: 

Fellowship: 
JRF @ ₹ 31,000/- p.m. for initial two years (subject to satisfactory progress of research work)
SRF @ ₹ 35,000/- p.m. for remaining tenure (subject to satisfactory progress of research work)

Contingency: 
For Humanities and Social Sciences: @ ₹ 10,000/- p.a. for the initial two years, @ ₹ 20,500/- p.a. for the remaining tenure.
For Science, Engineering, and Technology @ ₹ 12,000/- p.a. for the initial two years, @ ₹ 25,000/- p.a. for the remaining tenure.

Escort Reader Assistance:
@ ₹ 3,000/- p.m. in the case of ‘Divyang’ scholars.

Note: At the end of tenure/termination of fellowship/resignation of scholar, the books, journals, and equipment purchased out of the contingency grant shall become the property of the institution concerned.

HRA: 
(i)  Hostel accommodation may be provided to the scholars by their institutions. In such cases, the scholar is eligible to draw only hostel fees excluding 
mess, electricity, water charges, etc. In case, a scholar refuses the hostel accommodation, he/she shall not be eligible to draw HRA. 

(ii) In case of non-availability of hostel accommodation, the scholar may be provided with single accommodation by the host institution. In such cases, the rent paid by the scholar on an actual basis shall be reimbursed, subject to the ceiling of HRA as per Govt. of India norms.

(iii) If the scholar makes her own arrangements of accommodation, he/she shall be entitled to draw HRA as per ceiling and categorization of cities by the Govt. of India. In case, the scholar wishes to draw HRA, he/she is required to submit a certificate, in the prescribed format, to her institution.

MEDICAL ASSISTANCE: 
No separate/fixed medical assistance is provided. However, the scholars may avail the medical facilities available in their Institutions
concerned.

LEAVE:
(i) Earned Leave for a maximum period of 30 days in a year in addition to public holidays may be taken by a scholar. However, they are not entitled to any other vacation, such as summer, winter, and pooja vacations, etc.

(ii) Maternity/paternity leave as per the Govt. of India norms issued from time to time shall be available for female scholars at full rates of the fellowship once during the tenure of the fellowship. The period of leave without fellowship, if any, shall be counted towards the tenure.

Besides this, an ‘Intermittent Break’ for a maximum total period of 1 year may also be permissible for women scholars. The break can be availed a maximum of 3 times during the entire period of the fellowship. However, the total duration of the break shall not exceed one year. No fellowship shall be available for the period of such break(s). This period of intermittent breaks shall not be counted towards the tenure of the fellowship, and thus effectively the total period of fellowship shall remain the same.

(iii) Academic leave (without fellowship and other emoluments) shall be permissible only for one year throughout the tenure (for any kind of academic/teaching assignment/foreign visit in connection with research work). The period of leave without fellowship will be counted towards the tenure. Expenditure on foreign visits in connection to research work cannot be claimed from UGC. 

(iv) All kinds of leave shall be availed by the scholar only with due approval of the institution concerned.
Eligibility
(i) Any single girl child of her parents pursuing Ph.D. in any stream/subject in recognised Universities/Colleges/ Institutes is eligible to apply under the scheme.

(ii) The scheme is applicable to such a single girl child who has registered herself in regular, full-time Ph. D. program.

(iii) Admission to Ph.D. Course in part-time/distance mode is not covered under the scheme. A scholar is not eligible for fellowship if the research is intended/pursued through open/ part-time distance education mode or part-time mode.

(iv) Girl students up to the age of 40 years for general category and 45 years for the reserved categories i.e. SC/ST/OBC and PWD (Persons with Disabilities) as on the last date of submission of online application are eligible.

(v) Both the scholar receiving the fellowship and the institution concerned, where the scholar is pursuing her Ph.D are responsible to ensure that the terms and conditions of these schemes are followed properly and only the eligible candidates get the fellowship.
Application Process
Online
Applications are invited through online mode once in a year through advertisement in leading newspapers & employment news. Short notification is also uploaded in the UGC website i.e. www.ugc.ac.in

Step 1: Read the Guidelines 
This is the home page of the website: https://frg.ugc.ac.in/
● 5 schemes are displayed on the Homepage.
● Under each scheme, UGC guidelines are available. Before applying, kindly read the guidelines carefully and ensure your eligibility.


Step 2: Registration
● On the homepage, for registration, click on “New User” for the scheme you need to apply.
● Here, you need to fill in all the details for registration and provide an email address that will be used for all future correspondence.
● Please keep ready a scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB, format: jpg), before registration.
● The details provided at the registration stage will not be modified, after submission. It will be reflected in the Profile.
● Click on the ‘Submit’ button, after filling in all details. 

Step 3: Login
● After registration, you will receive an email from ugchelp@mail.inflibnet.ac.in with the Scheme Login Credentials to fill out the application form.
● You need to fill in the received login credentials
● Please change the password while logging in for the first time. Remember the new password, thereafter.

Step 4: Dashboard
● The details provided by you during Registration are now available in Profile.
● Various icons displayed here will be shown in red color before complete details are entered. Once all details are filled in and submitted, the color of the icons will change to green.
● Here, you need to click on the “Eligibility Criteria” button.

Step 5: Eligibility alert
● Read all the criteria and click on the check box next to UGC guidelines. 

Step 6: Eligibility 
● Please provide all the required details here.
● Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted from the parents on an affidavit of ₹ 100/-
stamp paper duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Tahsildar as per the prescribed proforma. 
In case, the parents are not alive, the affidavit can be submitted by the guardian of the Candidate. (Size: less than 1 MB)
● Kindly note that, once submitted, the eligibility form will not be modified.
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Step 7: Data Capturing Format 
After that, you click on the “Apply Now” box (see on rectangle)
Here, Data Capturing Dashboard will display where you need to fill in PG and Ph.D. details
Click on the PG Educational Qualification box

Step 8: PG details
● Provide PG details
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 9: Ph.D. Details
● Provide Ph.D.-related details and upload the required documents 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button

Step 10: Declaration
● Please read the declaration carefully.
● If you agree with the declaration, click on the check box next to “I Agree with above” 
● And Click on the ‘Submit’ button.

Please save your application for future use.

Note: No hard copies of the application form will be accepted or entertained at any point of time
Documents Required
Scanned copy of your passport-size photograph and signature (size upto 1MB , format: jpg).
Complete Research proposal (size upto 5 MB) and an abstract (size upto 1MB)
After filling out the application form, an auto-generated form will be displayed on your screen. Please take the printout of the same, get it signed by the 
HoD/Registrar and upload the same before the submission of the application form.
Proof of being a single girl child has to be submitted from the parents on an affidavit of Rs. 100/- stamp paper duly attested by SDM/First Class Magistrate/Tahsildar as per the prescribed proforma. In case, the parents are not alive, the affidavit can be submitted by the guardian of the Candidate (Size: less than 1MB)
