Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana - Short Term Training
Ministry Of Skill Development And Entrepreneurship
CounsellingDropoutKaushalPlacementSkillTrainingUnemployedVikas
Details
STT component imparted at PMKVY Training Centres (TC) is expected to benefit candidates of Indian nationality who are either school/college dropouts or unemployed. Apart from providing training according to the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF), TCs also impart training in soft skills, entrepreneurship, financial and digital literacy. Upon successful completion of assessment, candidates are provided placement assistance by training providers.

The Short-Term Training (STT) shall be implemented under both Central and State component of the scheme. STT shall have provision for both fresh skilling for trainees who are first time learners and reskilling for the trainees/existing workforce who have already undergone formal/informal skilling and need additional skill sets

Apart from providing training according to the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF), additional training shall also be imparted in English, Employability & Entrepreneurship (EEE) modules. Process shall be initiated for imparting add-on Bridge courses and language courses for making schemes compatible to international standards and requirements. This will enhance the potential for international employment of the Indian youth

Duration of the training shall vary as per job role

The scheme shall promote fee-based courses in higher level skills and courses that are NSQF level 5 and above. Review of the courses under PMKVY 3.0 shall be carried out for introducing fees in popular courses with higher industry demand and above average wages. However, PMKVY 3.0 would continue to support weaker and marginalized sections of the society

Benefits
Counselling:
Online Information / Counselling Platform
Through Counselling Helpline
Through District-level skill information centre 
Training:
Digital Content
Training in Soft Skills, Entrepreneurship, Financial and Digital Literacy
Additional Support
Accidental Insurance
One-time incentive to all certified candidates 
Boarding and lodging cost support 
Conveyance cost 
Post Placement Stipend 
Additional support to PwD candidates 
Induction kit and participant handbook 
Yearly incentive to Training Provider 
One-time placement travel cost 
Career progression support
Special Incentive for foreign placements
Post Placement Tracking Allowance
Placement
Post Training Support
The scheme will be compatible with the international standards by provisioning  add-on bridge courses and language courses

The scheme will be compatible with the international standards by provisioning  add-on bridge courses and language courses.

Note:
It is mandatory for the candidates to have an Aadhaar ID during the enrolment process. It is also mandatory for the students to maintain 70% attendance to be eligible to appear in the assessments
Eligibility
This scheme is applicable to any candidate of Indian nationality who:

Is aged between 15-45 years
Possesses an Aadhaar card and an Aadhaar linked bank account
Fulfils other criteria for the respective job role as defined by the awarding body
Application Process
Offline
The interested candidate can contact the nearest Training Center to apply.
Training Center: 
https://www.pmkvyofficial.org/trainingcenter 
Documents Required
As required for the job role.
