One Stop Centre
Ministry of Women and Child Development
AbuseVictimViolenceWomen
Details
Objective
One Stop Centres (OSC) are intended to support women affected by violence, in private and public spaces, within the family, community and at the workplace.
 Women facing physical, sexual, emotional, psychological and economic abuse, irrespective of age, class, caste, education status, marital status, race and culture will be facilitated with support and redressal. Aggrieved women facing any kind of violence due to attempted sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, trafficking, honour-related crimes, acid attacks or witch-hunting who have reached out or been referred to the OSC will be provided with specialized services.

The objectives of the Scheme are:

To provide integrated support and assistance to women affected by violence, both in private and public spaces under one roof.
To facilitate immediate, emergency and non-emergency access to a range of services including medical, legal, psychological and counselling support under one roof to fight against any forms of violence against women.

Target group
The OSC will support all women including girls below 18 years of age affected by violence, irrespective of caste, class, religion, region, sexual orientation or marital status.

Benefits

 Women under 18-
In case girls under 18 years of age are referred to the Centre, they will also be served in coordination with authorities/institutions established under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012.

The Centre will be open 24 hours with referral services.
Types of Services:  
Emergency Response and Rescue Services: OSC will provide rescue and referral services to the women affected by violence. For this, linkages will be developed with existing mechanisms such as National Health Mission (NHM), 108 services, and police (PCR Van) so that the woman affected by violence can either be rescued from the location and referred to the nearest 4 medical facilities (Public/ Private) or shelter home. 
Medical assistance: Women affected by violence would be referred to the nearest hospital for medical aid/examination which would be undertaken as per the guidelines and protocols developed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Provision of the ambulance (if required) is provided.
Police assistance: Facilitate/Assist in filing First Information Report (FIR/NCR)is provided. A Police Officer to facilitate the process.
Psycho-social support/ counselling
Legal aid/counselling
Shelter: The OSC will provide a temporary shelter facility to aggrieved women. For long term shelter requirements, arrangements will be made with Swadhar Greh/Short Stay Homes (managed/affiliated with government/NGO). Women affected by violence along with their children (girls of all ages and boys up to 8 years of age) can avail themselves of a temporary shelter at the OSC for a maximum period of 5 days. The admissibility of any woman to the temporary shelter would be at the discretion of the Centre Administrator
Video Conferencing Facility: Video Conferencing facility is provided under the scheme to facilitate online police and court proceedings.
Eligibility
All women facing physical, sexual, emotional, psychological, and economic abuse, irrespective of age, class, caste, education status, marital status, race, and culture.
Application Process
Offline
A woman affected by violence can access OSC in the following manner:
By herself; 
Through any person including any public-spirited citizen, public servant (as defined under section 21 of Indian Penal Code, 1860), relative, friend, NGO, volunteer, etc. , 
Through Women Helpline integrated with police, ambulance, and other emergency response helplines.
Documents Required
No documents are required for application.
You may carry your valid Identification card.
