Internship Programme for Women Students / Scholars / Social Activists / Teachers
Ministry of Women and Child Development
Internship ProgrammeOpportunityScholarsSocial ActivistTeachersWomen Student
Details
The Ministry of Women and Child Development launched the Internship Programme aims to tap the talent of the interns, giving them an opportunity to work for infusing further efficiency in implementation of schemes as also deliberate on its policies through different assignments. The Internship Programme would provide a common platform for meaningful interaction and space for research related to Government programs/initiatives. This Programme is expected to yield promptness in bridging possible information gaps pertaining to issues and problems of women and children in the country.

Objective:
The objective of the ‘Internship Programme’ is to translate the Hon’ble PM’s idea of “SABKA SATH, SABKA VIKAAS, SABKA VISHWAAS, SABKA PRAYAAS” for building a self-reliant India.

Duration:
The duration of the Internship Programme will be 2 months throughout the year
Interns can select any of the 2-month batches while submitting their applications

Number of Interns:
The ministry would take up to 20 interns per batch.

Benefits
Each intern would be provided a lump sum stipend of ₹20,000/- per month and reimbursement of travel cost (by Deluxe/AC Bus/3 Tier AC Train) for joining of the programme in the Ministry and return back home at the end of the programme.
Interns proceeding on tour as part of the programme would be reimbursed travel cost (by Deluxe/AC Bus/3 Tier AC Train) and DA as per extant Government of India rates.
The interns would also be awarded a certificate on successful completion of the programme on terms such as submission/presentation of papers/reports of the work done.
Interns would be provided a hostel facility on a sharing basis for the duration of their programme in Delhi. The hostel facility will only include basic amenities like triple sharing accommodation in each room with an attached bathroom, bed (mattress is not included), table, chair and cupboard.
The hostel facility would be available from 2 days before the start of programme up to 2 days after the end of the Programme (e.g., for an internship batch starting 1st June, the hostel facility will be available from the forenoon of 30th May 2023 up to the afternoon of 2nd August 2023 for a two- month programme).
Interns would be provided necessary logistic support such as seating arrangement, internet facility and stationery items in the Ministry.
The interns would be provided an Internship Coordinator who would be responsible for coordinating entire internship exercise, including networking and communication with other stakeholders.
Note: Mess charges are not included as part of the accommodation and are to be borne by the intern availing the hostel facility
Eligibility
The women students, scholars, social activists and teachers from non-tier-I cities and rural parts of India will be eligible for the programme.
The women students, scholars, social activists, teachers (herein after referred to as interns) need to be enrolled in/associated with any university/academic/non-academic institution.
The age of the applicant should be between 21 to 40 years.
Application Process
Online
Registration
Applicant have to visit the official portal.
Click on the Register button, from the top menu.
Provide the below required details.
Name
Date of Birth
Gender
State
District
City
E-Mail
Mobile No
Password and Confirm Password with Captcha Code. 
Click on Register.

Fill Application Form
Applicant have to visit the official portal.
Click on the Login button, from the top menu.
Use the email address and password used at the time of registration for logging in.
Applicants are required to upload latest password size photograph by updating profile.
Fill the application form and submit.
Documents Required
Candidate's Photograph.
ID Proof.
Address Proof.
Signature. 
Highest Education Certificate/Degree. 
Joining Letter of the Organization(For Teachers/Social Activist). 
Admission Certificate/Joining Letter of the Institution in which Currently Enrolled/Working.
