Financial Assistance On Marriage Of Children (HBOCWWB)
Haryana
ChildrenConstruction WorkerFinancial AssistanceMarriageSocial Welfare
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance on Marriage of Children (HBOCWWB)” was launched by the Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB), Labour Department Haryana. Under this scheme, a provision has been made to provide financial assistance of ₹21,000/- for a son’s marriage and ₹50,000/- for a daughter's marriage for making arrangements for the marriage of the son/daughter of a construction worker three days before the marriage. This assistance shall be sanctioned for the marriage of two children of the beneficiary provided that the benefits shall be extended up to three daughters.

Benefits
The financial assistance of ₹21,000/- for the son’s marriage and ₹50,000/- for the daughter's marriage will be given to a registered construction worker for making arrangements of the marriage of his/her son/daughter.
The financial assistance shall be sanctioned for the marriage of two children of the beneficiary provided that the benefits shall be extended up to three daughters.
Eligibility
1. The worker should be registered under Haryana Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board (HBOCWWB).
2. The registered worker should have a minimum of one-year regular membership.
3. The worker should have the attested marriage card of his/her son/daughter.    
Note 01: The worker will write in writing that he/she will submit the certificate of marriage in the office of the concerned Assistant Director within a period of six months otherwise he/she will not be eligible for any benefit under any welfare scheme in the future.
Note 02: The worker shall submit an undertaking/self-declaration that he/she has not received this assistance from any other Government Department/Board/Corporation and will not do so.
Note 03: The financial assistance shall be payable up to the marriage of two children but extendable up to the marriage of three daughters.
Note 04: The marriage card should be attested by any one of these authorities i.e. State Government Gazetted Officer/Assistant Labour Commissioner/Labour Inspector/Secretary Gram Panchayat/Panchayat Adhikari/ BDPO/ DDPO/ Naib Tehsildar/ Tehsildar/Canongo/Patwari/Assistant Director, Industrial Safety & Health/SDO and Government Department or Board or Municipal Committee/ Junior Engineer of Municipal Corporation / Municipal Council and Head of Government School (Principal / Head Master / Administrators)
Application Process
Online
Registration of a Construction Worker Under HBOCWWB:
Step 01: The construction worker should visit the Official Website of the Labour Department Haryana.
Step 02: On the home page, click on the “Building & Ors Const. Workers Welfare Board” link.
Step 03: Applicant has to read all the instructions and then “Tick” the acknowledgment, then click on the “Submit” button.
Step 04: Verification using Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP)- Family ID:
a) Forget/not having Family ID: If you do not have PPP ID or forget the PPP ID, then you have to select that radio button and you are redirected to the PPP Portal for getting their PPP ID.
b) Having a Family ID: If you have a family ID, then only you can move to the next step for registration. To proceed further, follow the given steps:
• Select the “I have family ID” radio button
• Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID
• Click on “Fetch Family Details” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID
• Select a family member for registration
• Enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification
• Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 05: Aadhaar Verification before Registration: Provide your Aadhaar number and tick mark the checkbox for the declaration. Click on the “Continue” button.
Step 06: After verification, fill out the complete registration form and submit the form.
Step 07: Login into the account: After the final submission of the registration form, a worker can login into his/her account using their username and password but unable to avail of any benefit. 
Step 08: To avail of the benefits, a worker has to pay the registration fee and add a work experience of a minimum of 90 days of the preceding year.
Step 09: Now, the worker needs to add work experience, to add 90 days of experience, the applicant has to fill in all the details of where he/she has worked.
Step 10: The schemes and other benefits can be availed once the 90 days’ work experience is approved by the
Officer.
Apply for Scheme: Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the workers need to visit Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. 
Step 02: If the worker is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User/Register Here” and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number & password. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Applicants will receive the login ID on their mobile number.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal
Step 02: The “Sign in here” option is available on the right side of the screen. Applicant needs to fill in their credentials and click on the ‘Login’ button.
Step 03: In the opened window, click on “Scheme/Services list” and a list of schemes will appear on the screen.
Step 04: Now, select the scheme and click on “Apply for Service/Scheme”.
Step 05: Fill in all the details asked in the online application form and submit the application form.
HBOCW Registration User Manual HBOCW                    Registration Basic Instructions & Features 
Documents Required
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar Card, Voter Card
Passport-size photograph
A copy of Undertaking
A copy Work Slip
Proof of residence
Ration Card
Bank account details
Caste Certificate (If applicable)
Proof of age
Marriage Certificate of the Children
Note 01: Self-attested copies of proof of age of bride and groom (minimum age of bride 18 years and minimum age of groom 21 years) will be submitted along with the claim form.
Note 02: The worker shall submit an undertaking/self-declaration that he/she has not received this assistance from any other Government Department/Board/Corporation and will not do so.
