Scholarship (I to VIII Standard) by Welfare of Differently Abled Persons
Tamil Nadu
BookDifferently-abled PersonScholarshipStudent
Details
The Department for the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, Government of Tamil Nadu, launched the "Scholarship for Students with Disabilities (Grades 1-8)" program. This initiative provides financial assistance to differently-abled students enrolled in government-recognized schools to help them purchase notebooks.

Benefits
Scholarship for purchase of books and notebooks:
Scholarship for students studying from 1st to 5th standard: ₹1,000/- per annum.
Scholarship for students studying from 6th to 8th standard: ₹3,000/- per annum.
Eligibility
The beneficiary must be a student. 
The beneficiary must be a differently abled person. 
The beneficiary must be studying in between class 1st to 8th standard. 
The beneficiary must be studying in government-recognized schools. 
The beneficiary must be student should not be avail of similar assistance from other sources.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Certificate student not availed of similar assistance (issued by the headmaster should certify that not availed similar assistance from other sources).
