West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Scheme: Repatriation of Dead Body
West Bengal
CremationFinancial AssistanceLabourMigrantRepatriationSocial WelfareWorker
Details
"West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Scheme: Repatriation of Dead Body" is a social welfare scheme implemented by the West Bengal Migrant Workers’ Welfare Board, Labour Department, Government of West Bengal on 25th April, 2023. Under this scheme, if any registered Migrant Worker dies in the course of employment outside the State of West Bengal, an assistance of ₹ 25,000/- will be provided to the nominee of the worker for bringing the dead body to his/ her permanent address.

Benefits
₹ 25,000/- to the nominee of the Migrant Worker.
Eligibility
For registration as a Migrant Worker:
The applicant must be a resident of West Bengal.
The applicant’s age should be between 18-60 years.
The applicant must be ordinarily a worker who is employed/ likely to be employed in any State/Union Territories other than the state of West Bengal/ Outside India.

For the application of Welfare Scheme:
The beneficiary should be a nominee i.e., a person nominated by the registered Migrant Worker from his/ her family.
The migrant worker should have lost his/her life due to death during the course of employment outside the State of West Bengal.
Application Process
Online
For Registration:
Step 1: Download and install “KARMASATHI (PARIJAYEE SHRAMIK )”  APP in android mobile phone from “GOOGLE PLAY STORE”.
Step 2: Choose language ( English/Bengali/Hindi) for and tap ‘NEXT’ to proceed further.
Step 3: Choose the option ‘Migrant Worker’ and tap ‘GO’ to proceed further.
Step 4: A Screen will appear to enter ‘Mobile Number/ MWIN’ . For new registration, a Migrant Worker will enter his Mobile No. to generate ‘OTP’.
Step 5: Provide Workers information in Basic Details, Address Details and Employment Details and tap ‘CONFIRM SUBMIT ’.
Step 6: A Provisional MWIN will be generated and SMS will be sent to the Mobile No.
Step 7: To complete application and to get permanent MWIN please tap the menu “incomplete application” and complete the application by providing more information such as bank accounts, ration card and nominee details.
Step 8: Upload the mandatory documents and Submit to complete the application process. to complete the registration process.
For Application:
Step 1: Open the “KARMASATHI (PARIJAYEE SHRAMIK )” APP and login through OTP.
Step 2: To get welfare assistance, please tap the menu “Services”.
Step 3: Provide details of claim and upload respective documents, mentioned therein, for the concerned scheme and Submit to complete the application process.
Search Migrant Worker Details: Migrant workers can search their details in the portal through providing Migrant Worker Identification Number (MWIN)/ Migrant Worker's Registered Mobile Number/ Migrant Worker's Aadhar Number.
Renewal of Registration as a Beneficiary : Migrant Worker, registered as beneficiary, will have to renew his/ her registration on yearly basis, through the portal.
Documents Required
Photo (max Size 50 KB, jpg or jpeg file only),
Aadhar card (Upload document both sides in a single page) (max size 150 KB, pdf file only),
First page of bank account particulars (max size 150 KB, pdf file only),
Employment related certificate.
Any other documents as required.
