Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana - Recognition Of Prior Learning
Ministry Of Skill Development And Entrepreneurship
Industry TrainingKaushalSkillVikas
Details
Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) is a skill certiﬁcation component to enable Indian youth to take on industry relevant skill certification which will help them to secure a better livelihood. Individuals with prior learning experience or skills can register themselves and get assessed and certiﬁed under the RPL component of PMKVY. It focuses mainly on individuals engaged in unregulated sectors.

Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs) such as private and public sector expert bodies in the sector, Central and State Government ministries and their institutions and other agencies designated by MSDE/NSDC are being incentivised to implement RPL projects in any of the five models (RPL camps, RPL at employer’s premises, RPL by demand, RPL with best-in-class employers and online RPL).

RPL has 12 hours of orientation. To address knowledge gaps, PIAs offer bridge courses to candidates along with the 12-hour orientation domain skills, soft skills and entrepreneurship tips and familiarization with the assessment process.

Any revisions made to these guidelines will be uploaded on the official website of PMKVY (www. pmkvyofficial.org). All stakeholders are advised to regularly check for amendments/changes, if any.

Benefits
Cash Reward: Every certified candidate will get a reward of Rs. 500/- for clearing the exam as encouragement
Accidental Insurance: Every certified candidate will be provided with 3-year accidental insurance of Rs. 2 lakh.
RPL Kit
Five types of RPL projects will be available in PMKVY 3.0.
RPL Type 1(Camps) - This is conducted for target beneficiaries in a location where workers of a sector are consolidated (such as industrial and / or traditional skill clusters)
RPL Type 2 (Employer Premises) - This type of RPL is conducted on site at the employer’s premises for industrial employees. 
RPL Type 3 (RPL by Demand) - This type involves RPL at designated Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK)/ PMKVY centers. Any individual or District Skill Committees (DSCs) can request for RPL at the available centre for a job role.
RPL Type 4 (RPL with Best-in-Class Employers (BICE)-Large Corporations / Industry and Medium Scale Enterprises) - Best-in-Class employer in both large and medium enterprise as per Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) criteria shall be certified. There is no orientation module in this type. It only has assessment.
RPL Type 5 (Online RPL) - Open to all skill seekers, who wish to take an online exam and get certified. This applies to specific job roles where theory and practical are both amenable to be conducted online.

For RPL Types 1, 2, and 3, the PIA will provide an RPL Kit that will have the following mandatory items:

01 Standard PMKVY T-shirt (For males)/Jacket or T-shirt (For females and Transgender). Females and transgender will be allowed to opt either for T-shirt or Jacket]
01 Standard PMKVY Cap
Study material for that the job role
Job role related items such as tools, items which can be useful at workplace etc. (this is optional).
Eligibility
RPL is applicable for any candidate of Indian nationality who:

Is of age between 18-45 years
Has prior experience in the job role for which they want RPL certification and as specified by the SSCs for those job roles
Possesses an Aadhaar and Aadhaar linked bank account
Fulfills other criteria related to work experience as defined by the SSCs for the respective job roles
If target beneficiaries belong to higher age groups than those specified in point 1, the Project Implementing Agency (PIA) would have to get this approved during the sanction from the PMKVY 3.0 Executive Committee/State level Empowered Committee.
Application Process
Offline
Online
The interested candidate can contact the nearest Training Center to apply.

Training Center:
https://www.pmkvyofficial.org/trainingcenter
Documents Required
As required for the job role.
