Financial Assistance for Artificial Limbs to Workers and their Dependents- Haryana Labour Welfare Board
Haryana
Artificial LimbsDisabilityFinancial AssistanceLabourPwDWorker
Details
The scheme “Financial Assistance for Artificial Limbs to Workers and their Dependents” is implemented by the Haryana Labour Welfare Board (HLWB), Labour Department, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided for artificial limbs up to the rates fixed by Saket Hospital, Chandimandir (Panchkula). This assistance is available to workers employed in industrial and commercial units in Haryana, as well as their dependents, who become disabled due to the loss of vital organs in an accident.

Benefits
Under this scheme, financial assistance up to the rates fixed by the Saket Hospital Chandimandir (Panchkula) will be provided to the workers/dependents if they lose important limbs.
Eligibility
The applicant should be employed in an industrial or commercial establishment in Haryana.
The worker should be registered with the Haryana Labour Welfare Board.
The monthly salary of the worker should not exceed ₹20,000/-.
The service period of the worker is fixed for one year.
The application is to be submitted within one year from the date of purchase of artificial limbs.
The assistance is available to workers and their dependents, who become disabled due to the loss of vital organs in an accident.
Application Process
Online
Apply for scheme benefits through the Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Registration Process:
Step 01: To avail of the benefits of the scheme, the applicant needs to visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal: https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, then he/she gets registered on the portal. 
Step 03: For registration, click on “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Full Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to Apply for the Scheme:
Step 01: Now, to avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Portal -Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and login through the email ID that is used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, search for the scheme and click on the scheme to proceed to fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and Click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Documents Required
Smart Card /Office ID Proof
Employee Certificate
Employer Certificate
Employee Salary Slip (Previous Month)
Disability Certificate (certified by Medical Board)
Doctor Prescription slip and bill for purchasing artificial limb
Affidavit
Undertaking (self)
Ration Card / ESI Card /Parivar Pehchan Patra (Family ID)
Bank account details
Any other documents as required
Note: The worker, in case of dependent, is required to submit proof of document that the person for whom he is applying is dependent on him.
