West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme: Waiver of Electricity Duty
West Bengal
Electricity DutyEntrepreneurshipIncentivesReimbursementSubsidyTextileWaiver
Details
The scheme “Waiver of Electricity Duty” is a sub scheme under “West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme”. It was launched on 13 December, 2022, by the Department of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Textiles, Government of West Bengal, and shall remain valid upto five years.
Objective of the "West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme” Scheme:
The object of the scheme is to extend fiscal incentives to textile sector across the entire value chain starting from fibre to stitched garments for setting up such units in the State. The focus is on accelerated and focused development of the textiles sector across the state. This shall enable to maximize the utilization of resources, generate new employment and widen the area of operation to make the state emerge as the preferred destination for investment in the textile sector.
Objective of the "Waiver of Electricity Duty" Scheme:
Through this incentive, an eligible textile sector enterprise will be entitled to waiver of electricity duty on the electricity consumed in its approved project.

Benefits
100% waiver of electricity duty for 5 years from the date of commencement of production subject to a maximum of ₹1,00,00,000/- per year.
Eligibility
Industries in the manufacturing and processing of textiles, apparel and technical textiles products.
The unit should have started production on or after 1st April 2022.
The units may be in the private sector, co-operative sector, joint sector as also companies/undertakings owned or managed by the State Government.
Shall not be applicable to the industrial units/enterprises.
The project should have been approved and sanctioned by a Central Financial Institution or Commercial Banks or State Financial Institutions.
The unit should hold an Registration Certificate, Date of Commencement Certificate and Eligibility Certificate issued by the Director of Textiles on satisfaction of arrangement.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process:
Step 1: Visit the registration page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Fill in all the mandatory details in that window and click on “Register”.
Step 3: You will be registered successfully with a confirmation.
Application Process:
Step 1: Visit the user login page of the Official Website.
Step 2: Login with your registered Mail Id and Password.. 
Step 3: Fill up the eligible form.
Step 4: Check your eligibility in the portal.
Step 5: Fill up your CAF.
Step 6: Fill up Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 7: Download and Self sign Form A and Form C (if any).
Step 8: Upload signed copy of Form A and copy of Form C (if any).
Step 9: Submit Your Application.
Helpdesk: Directorate of Textile.
Documents Required
Copy of Eligibility Certificate under West Bengal Textile Incentive Scheme, 2022 as modified from time to time certifying the date of commencement of production.
Copy of Udyam Reg./lEM(B).
Copy of documents regarding supply of electricity to the unit.
Copies of all relevant electricity bills (to be submitted as and when received).
Any other documents, if necessary.
