Supporting Community Radio Movement in India
Ministry Of Information And Broadcasting
Community Radio StationsEducational Institutions Operating CRSNGOs Operating CRS
Details
Community Radio is a form of local broadcasting that focuses on the needs and interests of a community. The Community Radio is an important third tier in Radio Broadcasting, distinct from Akashwani and Private FM Radio. The Community Radio is built on the principles of access, participation and the ability to represent one’s voice. It provides a platform to communities to air their voices on issues concerning their lives. The Community Radios are essentially low power FM Radio stations (having a coverage in the range of 5- 10 Kms radius) that are meant to be owned, set up and operated by not-for profit community based organizations and its contents are produced by and for the members of the community.

The Policy
In December 2002, the Government of India approved a policy for the grant of licenses for setting up of Community Radio Stations to well established educational institutions including IITs/IIMs. The matter was reconsidered in the year 2006 and the Government decided to broad base the policy by bringing ‘Non-profit’ organisations like civil society and voluntary organisations etc, under its ambit in order to allow greater participation by the civil society on issues relating to development & social change. Currently, not-for profit organizations/ institutions such as Educational Institutions, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, ICAR Institutions, NGOs, registered societies, public charitable trusts etc. are eligible to apply for setting up CRS.  As on 28.05.2024 there are 495 operational CRS across the country. 

The Scheme- 
The Government of India approved a Central Sector Scheme namely “Supporting Community Radio Movement in India” in 2012, which was lately extended for a period from 2021-22 to 2025-26 with an outlay of ₹50 Crores (₹ 50 Crores only). The mandate of the proposed scheme is to strengthen new and existing CR Stations with resources, capacity and technology, to promote growth of CRS, especially in remote and rural areas and to promote socio-economic and cultural development of communities as CRS is a powerful medium for social mobilization. Government has organized various Community Radio Workshops, Webinars and Regional and National Sammelans to promote awareness and peer learning among the CR sector stakeholders under the ambit of this Scheme.

Benefits
The Scheme encourages more and more Community Based organisations to come forward and setup Community Radios in larger public interests. Financial assistance is provided once the CRS is made operational by Licensee.
Eligibility
An organisation desirous of operating a Community Radio Station (CRS) must be able to satisfy and adhere to the following principles:
It should be explicitly constituted as a ‘non-profit’ organisation and should have a proven record of at least three years of service to the local community;
The CRS to be operated by it should be designed to serve a specific well defined local community;
It should have an ownership and management structure that is reflective of the community that the CRS seeks to serve;
Programmes for broadcast should be relevant to the educational, developmental, social and cultural needs of the community;
It must be a Legal Entity i.e. it should be registered (under the registration of Societies Act or any other such act relevant to the purpose);
NGOs, registered societies and Public Charitable Trusts shall be registered on NITI Aayog's NGO Darpan portal and the applicant shall provide its Unique ID along with the application.
Application Process
Online
For Registration and for apply 
Visit the official poral.
Follow the required instruction.
Documents Required
Copy of the registration certificate. (If the registration certificate is in languages other than Hindi/English, kindly provide translation in Hindi/English)
Copy of the memorandum of association/ bye laws etc. (If it is in any other language than Hindi/ English, translation in Hindi/English should also be provided)
Complete balance sheets with auditor's report for previous 3 years.
Map of service area.
Profile of organization.
Profile of community residing within 10 Km radius of location of CRS.
Geo-Coordinates (Latitude and Longitude) of the Location where antenna would be placed.
Details of All Governing Body Members of organization in the prescribed format.
Processing fee of Rs. 2500/-.
