Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana
Bihar
Financial AssistanceGirl WelfareSocial Empowerment
Details
Under Mukhyamantri Kanya Vivah Yojana, a grant amount will be given at the time of marriage to the girls of BPL families under Bihar. So that at the time of marriage, this amount can be used for the financial assistance of the family. 
Under the scheme girls can complete their studies and at the same time, on getting married at the right age, the government will give financial assistance at the time of marriage, which will bring more awareness among the people. So that the literacy rate of Bihar state can increase. With the introduction of this scheme, the state government has tried to stop the practice like dowry, due to which a complete effort has been made to change the mindset of the people.

Benefits
Under Bihar Kanya Vivah Yojana, an amount of 5 thousand will be given at the time of marriage of the girl child.
The benefit of the government scheme will be given only to the citizens of Bihar.
It will be helpful in preventing child marriage.
More emphasis will be laid on the education of girls.
Prohibiting the practice of dowry.
Eligibility
To apply to the scheme, the age of the girl child should be 18 years or more.
Beneficiary families must be natives of Bihar.
The family should be BPL card holders.
The annual income of the family should not exceed Rs.60,000.
The age of the boy to whom the girl will be married should also not be less than 21 years.
Application Process
Online
First of all, candidates visit the official website
Applicants have to go to the citizen section and click on the link to register yourself or click here. 
Fill out the application form with Personal Details, Address, Bank Details.
Attach the required documents.
Submit. 
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Basic address proof.
Caste certificate.
BPL ration card.
Date of birth of the girl.
Income certificate.
Bank account number.
Mobile number.
Passport size photo.
Birth certificate or age certificate of boy and girl.
Self-attested declaration of non-payment of dowry.
