Subsidy for Disabled Young Professionals
Haryana
LoanPwDSubsidyUnemployedYoung ProfessionalYouth
Details
The scheme "Subsidy for Disabled Young Professionals" is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam, Government of Haryana. Under this scheme, loans up to ₹25,00,000/- are provided to professionally educated unemployed disabled youth who fall under the OH, VH, HH, or MR categories, at different interest rates ranging from 4.5% to 8% per annum. The beneficiary should be a permanent resident of Haryana, aged between 18 and 45 years, who has obtained a professional degree from a recognized institute and has a disability of 40% or more to be eligible under this scheme.

Benefits
Under this scheme, loans up to ₹25,00,000/- are provided to professionally educated unemployed disabled youth who fall under the OH, VH, HH, or MR categories.
The loan is available at different interest rates ranging from 4.5% to 8% per annum.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant should have a disability of at least 40%.
The applicant's age should be between 18 and 45 years.
The applicant should have obtained a professional degree from a recognized Institute.
The scheme is for professionally educated unemployed disabled youth.
The activity proposed should be directly relevant to the professional degree of the applicant.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal. https://saralharyana.gov.in/
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 06: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
1. Identity/Citizenship Proof (Any one of the following):
• Aadhaar Card
2. Age Proof (Any one of the following):
• Aadhaar Card
3. Resident Proof/Address Proof/Ownership Proof (Any one of the following):
• Ration Card
• Haryana Domicile Certificate
4. Caste/Religion Proof (Any one of the following):
• Caste Certificate for reserved category
5. Disability Proof (Any one of the following):
• Disability Certificate (Disability should not be less than 40%)
6. Photo of Applicant
7. Bank account details
8. Any other documents as required
