Grant Scheme for Marriage of SC and ST Girls
Uttarakhand
Financial AssistanceMarriage GrantScheduled CasteScheduled Tribe
Details
“Grant Scheme for Marriage of SC and ST Girls” scheme is a social security scheme by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Uttarakhand. The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to the Scheduled Castes (SC) and  Scheduled Tribes (ST) girls to cover the expenses of marriage.

Benefits
₹ 50,000/- to the beneficiaries.
Note: Assistance can be avail for the marriage of a maximum of 2 (two) daughters in a family.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Uttarakhand.
The applicant should be a girl/ woman.
The applicant should belong to the category of Scheduled Castes (SC)/ Scheduled Tribes (ST)/ BPL (Below Poverty Level).
Applicant’s monthly family income should not exceed ₹4,000/-.
The applicant (Bride) should be between 18-45 to years of age and the groom should be between 21-45 years of age.
Application Process
Online
Step 1: Visit Official Website then click on “Online Application” in the Menu Bar.
Step 2: Click on “Submit New Online Application” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: The registration form will be displayed.
Step 4: Select the scheme in the registration form and fill in the required information . 
Step 5: After saving the application form , the applicant will receive the password of the applicant login by SMS at the address given by the applicant .
Step 6: Click on the “Applicant Login” under the menu item to apply online using these login IDs and passwords .
Step 7: Once you have successfully logged in , the information on your registered application form will be updated as needed.
Step 8: Upload the documents required for the scheme (as indicated in the required document menu item) by clicking Upload documents menu item (File type: pdf; file size: 1 MB).
Step 10: After uploading all the required documents, the applicant will be able to take a printout of the application form by clicking on the "Print Application Form" menu item.
Track Application:
Step 1: Visit Official Website then click on “Online Application” in the Menu Bar.
Step 2: Click on “Check application status” in the menu item for Online Application.
Step 3: Enter your Enter application number/ Mobile number/ Aadhaar number
Step 4: Then click on the “Search” button to see the application status.
Note:
The applicant's name in the application form must be the same as the applicant's name in the Aadhaar card and the name in the passbook.
The applicant's information such as scheme, district, area, tehsil, block, panchayat, village, city, ward cannot be updated by the applicant. 
Do not mention the applicant joint/ loan bank account in the application form.
Once your application is under process or processed, you cannot update.
Helpdesk:
Toll Free Number: 8004804236
What’s App Mobile Number: 6395221188
Landline Number:
035-267422
035-2669764
Email ID:
swditcell@gmail.com
itcell-ewd-uik@nic.in
Documents Required
Antyodaya Card/ BPL Certificate/ Income Certificate.
Residential Certificate.
Copy of marriage certificate issued by the Registration Office .
Self-declaration from the applicant and the applicant's family members that they have not availed the benefit of this scheme for the marriage of more than one daughter before.
Copy of Caste Certificate of the applicant. 
Certificate of date of birth of the bridegroom/bride (High School Certificate/ Birth Certificate/ Family Register/ Aadhaar Card/ Family Register).
Self-attested Ration Card.
Photo of the applicant.
Aadhaar card of the applicant.
Copy of Savings Bank account (should be seeded with Aadhaar).
Note: 
It is mandatory to apply between 01st March and 28th February of the year in which the marriage takes place. If one ' s marriage is in the months of January and February and the documents are not completed at the same time , then in such a situation , one can apply before the marriage takes place, but the benefit will be available only after uploading the marriage registration certificate on the portal.
