Vice Chancellor Internship Scheme
Ministry of Education
EducationHonorariumPostgraduateStudentUndergraduate
Details
The "Vice Chancellor Internship Scheme (VCIS)" by the University of Delhi aims to provide students with experiential learning opportunities, integrating academic knowledge with practical work experience. This initiative aligns with the objectives of "Samagra Shiksha" (holistic education) as outlined in the NEP 2020. The VCIS allows students to work in various departments, centers, and institutes within the university, offering a unique platform to broaden their skills and gain real-world experience.
Objectives of VCIS, University of Delhi:
Internship schemes allow young students to be associated with the university's work for mutual benefit.
It will expose university students to the several departments/centres/ institutes existing within the University of Delhi. 
It will infuse in interns a sense of belongingness with the University system.
It will connect students of the University of Delhi to their local community and give them realworld experiences.
It will train students in collecting/streamlining documents and collating available data/resources. 
It will inculcate professional aptitude, strengthen personal character, and provide a more significant opportunity for students to broaden their mental horizons.
It will give students the broadest spectrum of opportunities when seeking and applying for a job after college.
It will be beneficial for the University of Delhi as the involvement of interns with the institution will inculcate a sense of responsibility and strengthen bonding with the University. Young students with innovative ideas, abilities and skills for resolving problems will be instrumental in bringing systemic and holistic changes to the University system.

Kinds of Internships under VCIS: 
Internship
Summer Internship

Duration of the Internship:
Summer internships are 8 weeks long with 15-20 flexible hours per week. 
Regular internships during the academic session are 8-10 hours per week, with a maximum duration of six months.

Benefits
Stipend: 
₹5,000/- per month for interns
₹10,500/- per month for summer interns.
NOTE: Stipend will be enhanced by 5% each financial year. 

Certificate:
Receive a certificate of experience from the Dean of Students' Welfare.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a student.
The students pursuing Final year/ Final Semester are not eligible.
All bonafide full-time regular students of the University of Delhi, studying in any course or stream at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels, are eligible.
Application Process
Online
Apply Procedure:
Step-01: The interested applicant visits the official website. 
Step-02: The applicant needs to fill out a Google Form to apply for the internship.
Step-03: Fill in the required information and upload all the essential documents.

Note:  List of selected candidates for the Vice Chancellor Internship Scheme show on the official website.

Selection Procedure:
Based on assessment and interaction with the selection committee, comprising members nominated by the Vice-Chancellor.
Documents Required
Letter of Recommendation (issue from the Head of the Departments/Institution/College/ Centres).
Joining Letter.
Any other document if required.
