Shilp Sampada Term Loan Scheme for Backward Classes- Haryana
Haryana
ArtisansBackward ClassesHandicraftShilp SampadaTerm Loan
Details
The scheme "Shilp Sampada Term Loan Scheme for Backward Classes" is implemented by the Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam, Government of Haryana. Under the scheme, loans of up to ₹10,00,000/- are provided to artisans and handicraft persons from backward classes to preserve traditional arts and crafts. The scheme also offers training to upgrade their existing skills with the latest technological inputs, such as the use of computers, CAD, etc. The applicants must be between 18 and 35 years old, permanent residents of Haryana, and belong to the backward class.

Benefits
Under this scheme, loans of up to ₹10,00,000/- are provided to artisans and handicraft persons from backward classes to preserve traditional arts and crafts.
The scheme also offers training to upgrade their skills with the latest technological inputs, such as the use of computers, CAD, etc.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a permanent resident of Haryana.
The applicant should be an artisan or a craftsperson.
The applicant should be between 18 and 35 years old.
The applicant should belong to the backward class category.
The applicant's annual family income should not exceed ₹3,00,000/- in rural and urban areas.
Application Process
Online
Registration Process on Antyodaya-SARAL Portal:
Step 01: The eligible applicant may apply online through the Official Portal- Antyodaya-SARAL Portal.
Step 02: If the applicant is not registered on the portal, he/she gets registered there. 
Step 03: For registration, click “New User” under ‘Sign In Here’ and fill in all the mandatory details i.e. Name, Email ID, Mobile Number, Password & State. Click on ‘Submit’.
Step 04: Verify your mobile number and email ID through the received OTP and complete the registration process.
Login to apply for the scheme:
Step 01: To avail the benefits of the scheme, visit the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal and log in through the email ID used while registering.
Step 02: Enter Password & Captcha and click on ‘Login’.
Step 03: After successful login, click on ‘Apply for Services’ and then ‘View all Available Services’
Step 04: Now, you can search for the scheme and click on the scheme to go ahead and fill out the application form.
Step 05: Enter your Parivar Pehchan Patra number - Family ID and click on “Click here to Fetch Family Data” which displays the family members registered under the given Family ID.
Step 06: Select the beneficiary/applicant name and enter the OTP that is being sent to the selected family member for verification. Click on “Click to Verify”
Step 07: Fill in all the mandatory details and upload all the mandatory documents.
Step 08: Preview the application form and click on ‘Submit’.
Tracking of Application:
Applicants can track their applications through the Official Antyodaya-SARAL Portal by entering their Department Name, Scheme Name, and Application Reference ID. 
Documents Required
1. Identity/Citizenship Proof (Any one of the following):
• Aadhaar Card
2. Age Proof (Any one of the following):
• Aadhaar Card
3. Resident Proof/Address Proof/Ownership Proof (Any one of the following):
• Ration Card
• Haryana Domicile Certificate
4. Caste/Religion Proof (Any one of the following):
• Caste Certificate for reserved category
5. Photo of Applicant
6. Bank account details
7. Any other documents as required
