Permanent Disability/ Death Benefit for the Construction Workers
Sikkim
Accidental SupportConstruction WorkersDeath BenefitDivyangFinancial AssistanceLabourPermanent Disability
Details
The "Permanent Disability/ Death Benefit for the Construction Workers" by the Sikkim Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to the nominees/ dependents of a member, in case of his/her death or Permanent Disability.

Benefits
₹1,50,000/- is provided for Death Benefit.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Sikkim.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have served the Board for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Should be a nominee/ dependent of the registered worker of the Sikkim Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The nominees/ dependents should have lost any registered member/ worker of the due to death or the worker is permanently disabled due to an accident during the course of employment.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: The complete application form along with the required documents is required to be submitted to the Registering Officer of the area.
Step 2: The Registering Officer, after satisfying himself/herself with all the details, may register the worker as a beneficiary under the act and issue an Identity Card in Form XXVIII.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Upon receiving the Identity Card as a Building/ Construction Worker, the applicant needs to submit the application form for the concerned welfare scheme along with the mandatory documents to the Secretary or any other Officer authorized by him (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Later on, verifying the eligibility of the concerned welfare scheme, the applicant may get the benefits.
Application form for the Registration as a Beneficiary: Form XXVII (Refer Page No: 153).
Application form for the Permanent Disability/ Death Benefit Assistance: Form XXXIV (Refer Page No: 160).
Helpdesk:
For further enquiry, workers can contact the following numbers:-
70769-26998 (BOCW Nodal Officer)
90643-89842 (East)
90028-33969 (Pakyong)
96098-63959 (South)
95477-16798 (West)
96359-98441 (North)
Toll Free Helpline for labourers: 18003451474
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Photographs of the concerned worker.
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
Attested copy of Address Proof.
Details of the establishment where the applicant is working.
Proof regarding Submission of Registration fees.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Letter from concerned organization/establishment.
Identity Card.
Medical/ Death Certificate.
FIR. /G.D.
