Kashyapa Scheme for Food & Shelter
Andhra Pradesh
Brahmin CommunityFinancial AssistanceSocial Welfare
Details
The Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation (ABC) Limited, a government undertaking, has launched the "Kashyapa Scheme for Food & Shelter" (KS-FS) to address the critical needs of underprivileged Brahmins in Andhra Pradesh. This initiative aims to alleviate the financial burden of food and shelter expenses, including orphan children, differently-abled individuals, widows, destitute women separated from their husbands, and elderly Brahmins. The program offers financial assistance and encompasses all 13 districts of the state.

Benefits
Financial Assistance:
₹2,000/- per month to orphan children.
₹2,000/- per month to different abled persons.
₹2,000/- per month to widow or destitute women (separated from husband).
₹2,000/- per month for elderly staying in his/her own home.
₹4,000/- per month for elderly staying in any Old-Age Home in Andhra Pradesh. 
₹2,000/- per month for elderly staying in any Old-Age Home in Andhra Pradesh and getting a pension through the NTR Bharosa Scheme. 
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to the Brahmin community and reside in Andhra Pradesh. 
The applicant should be a holder of a white ration card. 
The applicant's annual family income should not exceed ₹75,000/-. 
The orphan children below 14 years of age as of 31st Jan 2019.  
The Elderly above 60 years of age as of 31st Jan 2019. 
All differently abled of any age and widows & destitute women (separated from husband, but do not have legal documents) of any age. 
The applicant should not have availed himself/ herself of any amount under any other Government scheme for the same purpose. 
Application Process
Online
Registration and apply
Step 01: Applicants have to visit the official website(https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/schemes/schemes.aspx#) and click on "Scheme"
Step 02: Click on "Registration" After that application form will open
Step 03: Fill out the required details:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-4: After submission receive the reference number. 

Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step 02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step 03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step 01: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip"
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme"
Step 03: Click on the "Submit"
Documents Required
Passport-size Photograph.
Aadhar Card of the applicant. 
Caste Certificate (issued by competent government authority Revenue Inspector/MRO.
White Ration Card OR Income Certificate (issued by competent Government authority Revenue Inspector/MRO.
Copy of SB Account in Andhra Bank or SBI (account must be in the name of applicant).
Staying Certificate (from the Old Age Home that the applicant is staying in their Old Age Home).
Death Certificate of Husband (in case of widow).
Legal Divorce Document (in case of divorcee women).
Recommendation Certificate (from Director/DLO/MCLO of the Corporation OR MC Member of the AP Brahmin Cooperative Credit Society OR any MLA / MP / MLC, in case of destitute women -separated from husband, but do not have legal document).
