Veda Vyasa Scheme for Vedic Education
Andhra Pradesh
Brahmin CommunityFinancial AssistanceStudent
Details
Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation launched the “Veda Vyasa Scheme for Vedic Education” for the year 2019-20, to encourage Vedic Education in Andhra Pradesh.  Under this scheme, selected applicants will be granted Annual Financial Assistance. The scheme applies to Brahmin Community students who are pursuing Vedic Education (Yajur Veda, Rig Veda, Sama Veda, Atharvana Veda, or Smartham), as a full-time course.

Benefits
Course wise Financial Assistance: 
Sl. No. Approximate Age of the Student Course Period of Study Annual Financial Assistance
1 Between 8 & 19 Years Smartham 6 Years ₹12,000/- 
2 Between 8 & 14 Years Moolam 6 Years ₹12,000/- 
3 Between 13 & 16 Years Padam 3 Years  ₹24,000/- 
4 Between 15 & 17 Years Kramam 1 Year  ₹30,000/- 
5 Between 16 & 18 Years Jata 1 Year  ₹36,000/-
6 Between 17 & 19 Years Ghanam 1 Year ₹36,000/-
Eligibility
The student and his parents should belong to the Brahmin community.
The parents of the student should reside in Andhra Pradesh. 
The student's age should be between 8 to 19 years. 
The student should be pursuing a full-time vedic course (Yajur Veda, Rig Veda, Sama Veda, Atharvana Veda, or Smartham) in any of the Veda Pathasala registered with Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) or Endowments Department of Govt. of Andhra Pradesh or enlisted by the A.P. Brahmin Welfare Corporation.  
The student applying for Padam, Kramam, Jata, and Ghanam should have completed their previous course of study.  
The student should be enrolled in the Praja Sadhikara Survey (PSS).  
Application Process
Online
Registration and apply
Step 01: Applicants have to visit the official website(https://www.andhrabrahmin.ap.gov.in/schemes/schemes.aspx#) and click on "Scheme"
Step 02: Click on "Registration" After that application form will open
Step 03: Fill out the required details:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-4: After submission receive the reference number. 

Check Application Status:
Step 01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step 02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step 03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step 01: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip"
Step 02: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme"
Step 03: Click on the "Submit"
Documents Required
Aadhar Card of the Student & Parents (with address in Andhra Pradesh)
Caste Certificate (issued by MeeSeva)
Residence Certificate (issued by MeeSeva)
Birth Certificate (issued by MeeSeva)
Study Certificate (from the Vedic School, where the student is pursuing the Vedic course)
Course Completion Certificate (in respect of Moolam, Padam, Kramam, and Jata issued by the competent authority)
Bank Passbook 

NOTE: Bank Account Passbook in the name of the student (should be in Andhra Bank or State Bank of India) duly signed by the Branch Manager with seal.
