Gayathri Scheme for Academic Excellence
Andhra Pradesh
BrahminEducationFinancial AssistanceSSCStudent
Details
Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Welfare Corporation, a Government of Andhra Pradesh undertaking, launched the “Gayathri Scheme for Academic Excellence” (GS-AE).  Under this scheme, the topper of the school/ College/ Institute for the course will be recognized with a certain amount through the prescribed process. This scheme is applicable to students of Andhra Pradesh covering all 13 districts. 

Benefits
SSC (10th): ₹7,500/-
Intermediate or equivalent (Polytechnic, ITI at the end of Final Year): ₹10,000/-
Graduation (at the end of Final Year): ₹15,000/-
Professional Education Course (at the end of Final Year): ₹ 20,000/-
Eligibility
The student and his/her parents should belong to the Brahmin community.
The parents of the student should reside in Andhra Pradesh. 
The student must be a regular (Full Time) student of the course for the academic year 2018-19. 
The student should be the topper of the entire course (at the end of SSC/ Intermediate or equivalent /Graduation /Professional Edn. Course) in the School/ College/ Institute for the academic year 2018-19.
The toppers of SSC/ Intermediate or equivalent and Graduation should have completed the course in Andhra Pradesh. However, toppers of Professional Education Course may have completed the course from anywhere in India but the parents should be residing in Andhra Pradesh.
The student should not have availed himself/herself of any amount under any other government scheme for the same purpose. 
Application Process
Online
Registration
Step-01: Applicants have to visit the official website and click on Scheme.
Step-02: Click on "Registration" under the concerned scheme name.
Step-03: Fill out the application form with required details like:
Personal Details: Name, Residence address, Aadhaar no, Ration card no, Bank detail etc
Upload: Photo, Signature and Certificate Details 
Documents: Birth Certificate, Residential Certificate, Aadhaar Card, Caste Certificate, Bank Passbook etc
Finalize and "Submit" the application.
Step-04: Receive the reference number after the submission.

Check Application Status:
Step-01: Click on the “Services” link on the menu and select "Know your status".
Step-02: Enter the Reference or Mobile or Aadhaar Card Number to get the application status.
Step-03: Select the "Financial Year" and Fetch the details. 

Download the Acknowledgement slip:
Step-01: Applicants have to visit the official website and click on Scheme.
Step-02: Click on the "Acknowledgement Slip" under the concerned scheme.
Step-03: Enter the Aadhaar Card Number and select the "Scheme".
Step-04: Click on the "Submit".
Documents Required
Aadhar Card of the Student (with address in Andhra Pradesh)
Aadhar Card of the Student Parents (with address in Andhra Pradesh)
Caste Certificate (issued by MeeSeva)
Residence Certificate (issued by MeeSeva)
Birth Certificate (issued by MeeSeva)
Topper Certificate (issued by the Head of the School/ College/ Institute, indicating that the student is topper of the school/ College/ Institute for the entire course for the academic year)
Mark Sheet
Bank Passbook 

NOTE: Bank Account Passbook in the name of the student (should be in Andhra Bank or State Bank of India) duly signed by the Branch Manager with seal. However, for students of Professional Education Course outside Andhra Pradesh, account in any Nationalised Bank is acceptable.
