Ex-gratia for Permanent Disability/ Chronic Diseases/ Surgery/ Operation for the Construction Workers
The Dadra And Nagar Haveli And Daman And Diu
Building WorkerChronic DiseasesConstruction WorkerEx-gratiaLabourOperationPermanent DisabilitySurgery
Details
The "Grant of Token Amount for Construction of House for the Construction Workers" by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, registered beneficiaries of the board shall be provided with financial assistance for Permanent Disability/ Chronic Diseases/ Surgery/ Operation.

Benefits
For Permanent Disability (100%): ₹1,00,000/-.
For Chronic Diseases Treatment: Not exceeding ₹1,00,000/- in a year.
For Surgery/Operation: ₹40,000/-.
Note:
For Chronic Diseases Treatment: Beneficiaries may receive self-treatment or treatment for their dependents as indoor patients from any hospital.
For Surgery/Operation: This benefit excludes operations related to maternity.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in any building or other construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Registered member Under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board of U.T. Administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.
The applicant should have any of the following:
Permanent Disability. 
Chronic Diseases (of Applicant’s or his/her dependents)
Surgery/ Operation.
Application Process
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Application for registration is to be made in the prescribed form and is to be accompanied by prescribed documents and a fee of not more than ₹50/-.
Step 2: Application for registration has to be made to the officer authorized by the Board on this behalf.
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Any registered worker can make an application in the prescribed Form-V (Refer Page No: 10)  along with the mandatory documents  (self attested, if required).
Step 2: Application shall be submitted to the Member Secretary (BOCWWB) for this benefit.
Check Beneficiary Details: Visit the official website and enter the “BOCW Registration No.” of the concerned beneficiary in the Search box.
Helpdesk:
BOCW Department:
EMAIL ID: labour-dnh@nic.in
PHONE NUMBER : 0260 - 2642374
ADDRESS:
Old Circuit House Building,
Opposite Bal Bhawan, Silvassa,
Dadra and Nagar Haveli
Pin:- 396230
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Photographs of the concerned worker.
Attested copy of Proof of Age.
Attested copy of Address Proof.
Details of the establishment where the applicant is working.
Proof regarding Submission of Registration fees.
Any other document as required.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Medical Expenses (copy of bills).
Copies of Medical Certificate.
Certificate of Cause For Disability.
