Young Interns Program
Rajasthan
EducationGovernmentInternshipStudent
Details
The Young Interns Program (YIP) is an internship program, envisaged by the Government of Rajasthan, for providing opportunities for talented and progressive youth to upgrade their skills by gaining practical experience working in programs, schemes and projects of the government departments. The program is mutually beneficial to the government as well as the interns:
The Government is benefitted by infusing novelty and innovation in the project implementation and service delivery system through the youthful and courageous ideas & techniques of the young interns.
The Interns are benefitted by attaining knowledge of project implementation and the ecosystem of the government functionalities. 

Objectives
To empower the young brains to attain awareness and knowledge about various government programs and services and about various interventions between government, service providers, recipients and peripheral agencies such as media, civil society etc. 
To strengthen their research and evaluation skills in the field of public administration and development services.
To generate interest amongst the youth towards the entire service delivery ecosystem of the public services.
To get independent critical analysis of government programs and for seeking suggestions for corrective measures. 
To augment innovations from the young minds to enhance the outreach and impact of government schemes & programs.

Deployment
For FY 2023-24, the following arrangements for the deployment of 300 young interns may be executed:
Interns to be deployed at each Divisional HQ: 3 each (7x3=21)
Interns to be deployed at each District HQ: 2 each (26x2=52)
Interns to be deployed at the Department level for specific to the schemes/projects/programs: 227 (300-21-52=227)

Duration
The internship is of one-year duration.
NOTE 1: After the end of the first year, if the mentor/nodal officer feels and recommends the extension in the internship duration on the basis of the performance of the intern, the duration of the internship may be increased by one more year with six months at a time. 
NOTE 2: In no circumstances, the duration of the internship shall be more than two years.

Benefits
Stipend
₹ 30,000/- per month.

Laptop Connectivity and Mobility Support
₹ 2500/- shall be paid to each intern per month.

Leaves
Every intern will be eligible for one casual leave every month on an accrual basis. Such leaves shall be provided in a cumulative manner i.e. 12 leaves for the entire year (from January to December). 
Eligibility
General
The age of the applicant should be between 21 years and 30 years.
The applicant should have excellent communication/presentation/intra–personal skills/soft skills.
The applicant should have good Knowledge of English as well as Hindi language (Reading, Speaking, Writing and Understanding)
The applicant should have well-versed ICT skills and knowledge of MS Office and other similar programs on alternative platforms.
It is mandatory for all the interns to have their own Laptop and data card/internet facility.

Education Specific
The applicant should have a post-graduate qualification with a minimum of 60% marks or a CGPA of 6 on a scale of 10 in any stream from a recognized university.
The graduate applicant of Engineering/Medical/Law/CA/CS Streams from a recognized University with a minimum 60% mark or a CGPA of 6 on a scale of 10 shall also be eligible for this internship. 

Reservation / Preference / Priority
The applicant with working experience in the field of his/her choice of department shall be given priority.

NOTE 1: Any other additional educational and/or technical qualifications and experience shall be as per the special requirements submitted by the concerned department/district collector/divisional HQ, if any.
NOTE 2: In case of any dispute, the decision of the Secretary-in-charge of, Statistics Department will be binding and final.
Application Process
Online
Application
Applications will be invited from eligible candidates through the online application platform in the Rajasthan Single Sign-On (SSO) Portal. [SSO Portal > SSO Login > Citizen Apps (G2C) > Young Interns Program]

Scrutiny and Interview
The departments shall constitute a selection committee of not less than three members including the chairperson.
The mentor shall be the chairperson of the committee.
All the applications shall be downloaded and scrutinized by the respective departments. 
The applicants found eligible shall be invited for Group Discussion and Personal Interviews (G.D. & P.I.) by the selection committee of the department.
The interviews will be conducted by a board of three members not below the rank of Joint Secretary/Joint Director.

Selection and Allotment
The selection process for 227 young interns (on the basis of Intent Write-Up, G.D. & P.I.) shall be completed at the level of respective departments.
The selection of the interns shall be on the basis of the following criteria
      a)  Intent Write-Up: 50 marks
      b)  Group Discussion (G.D.): 50 marks
      c)  Personal Interview (P.I.): 100 marks
  3. A composite merit list of 1.25 times the actual requirement shall be declared.

NOTE: 25% of the actual requirement shall be kept as a waiting list that can be activated if an intern leaves the internship within two months of the commencement of the internship.
Documents Required
Photograph
Letter of Intent (in Hindi or English)
Domicile Certificate of the state of Rajasthan
Proof of Age (Birth Certificate or Marksheet of Class 10th)
Proof of Educational Qualification (Passing Certificate / Marksheet)
Proof of Experience
Details of Bank Account
