Maintenance Of Pregnant Desi Indigenous Cows Ration For BPL Families
Himachal Pradesh
Balanced RationBPL FamiliesPregnant Desi Indigenous Cows
Details
The Department of Animal Husbandry, Government of Himachal Pradesh had introduced a scheme named "Maintenance of Pregnant Desi/Indigenous Cows Ration for BPL families of all Categories of livestock farmers" with the help of which a balanced ration of 3 kg per day for up to two cows or buffaloes for three months during the last trimester of pregnancy to BPL families shall be provided. The government and beneficiary share the cost of the ration on a 50:50 basis, and the cost of feed depends on approved rates.  This scheme may serve about 6.5 Lakh cows and buffaloes become pregnant every year in the state. This scheme may help BPL families and all categories of livestock farmers in the state to maintain a balanced and nutritious diet for pregnant Desi/Indigenous cows in the State. Maintaining a proper and balanced ration for pregnant Desi/Indigenous cows is crucial for the health of cows and the growth and development of calves. Providing a nutritious and balanced diet can also help reduce the risk of health complications during and after pregnancy. 
Objectives:
Increase in milk production thereby providing more economic gains to the farmers.
To reduce the inter-calving period which will ultimately result in more calves and higher milk production.
To improve the health of pregnant cows so that their full milk production potential can be realized after parturition.
To ensure the birth of healthy calves free of diseases and malnutrition so that they grow to become higher-producing animals.
As the incentive is being given to Desi/Indigenous cows the farmers can be motivated to rear such animals.

Benefits
Benefits:
The scheme for maintenance of pregnant Desi/Indigenous cows ration for BPL families of all categories of livestock farmers in Himachal Pradesh can have a significant impact on the health and livelihoods of farmers, as well as the overall development of the region. This scheme in Himachal Pradesh can have several benefits, such as:
Improved cow health: A balanced and nutritious diet for pregnant cows can improve their health and reduce the risk of health complications during and after pregnancy.
Improved calf growth and development: A well-fed pregnant cow can provide better nutrition to the growing calf, leading to better growth and development.
Increased milk production: Adequate nutrition can improve the milk production of the cow, leading to increased income for the farmer.
Better breed quality: The scheme can also include provisions for breed improvement, leading to better quality Desi/Indigenous cows that can provide better milk yield and meat quality.
Employment generation: The scheme can create employment opportunities in the feed and fodder development sector, leading to better livelihoods for farmers.
Reduced poverty: The scheme can help BPL families and all categories of livestock farmers to improve their income and reduce poverty.
Improved food security: Improved milk production and better quality meat can contribute to better food security in the region.
Expected Outcome:
After feeding a balanced ration during the last trimester of pregnancy, milk production increased by 2 ltr/day.
With the assumption that during lactation of 300 days, the farmer will market this milk at @ 30/ltr, his income will increase by Rs.18000/year (Approx.).
Eligibility
Livestock owners belonging to BPL families of all categories rearing Desi/Indigenous/crossbred cows.
The subsidy will be provided to each BPL family of all categories maximum upto two Desi/Indigenous cows and their crosses.
Application Process
Online
Visit the official website of the department of the Animal Husbandry, Government of Himachal Pradesh, which implements the specific scheme.
The applicant may read the complete guidelines of the scheme for "maintenance of pregnant Desi/Indigenous cows ration for BPL families of all categories of livestock farmers" and if found eligible, may scroll down and click on the checkbox "I agree with the terms & Conditions" and click "Proceed" button.
Once Proceed, online application form open.
Fill the application form, upload the documents such as proof of BPL status, land documents, and bank account details and click Submit. 
Submit the application form and documents to the concerned department or authority.
Check the status & Follow up with the concerned department to track the status of the application.
Note:
It is important for farmers to keep a copy of the application form and documents submitted for future reference. Additionally, farmers should ensure that they comply with the guidelines and regulations of the scheme to ensure that they are eligible for the benefits of the scheme.
During the application form, the applicant can enter maximum 2 in the section "Number of Cow" and shall be required to enter the "Ear Tag Number" of each cow.
Documents Required
Copy of Aadhaar card.
Copy of Bank Passbook.
Number of Cow along with their Ear Tag Number.
Copy of BPL certificate. 
Copy of Pregnancy certificate.
Copy of Income certificate.
Copy of Residence proof. 
Other relevant documents as listed by the department from time to time.
