Mukhyamantri Anusuchit Jati Evam Anusuchit Janjati Chhatrawas Anudan Yojana
Bihar
GrantHostelScheduled CasteScheduled TribeStudent
Details
The “Mukhyamantri Anusoochit Jaati Evam Anusoochit Janajati Chhatrawas Anudan Yojana” was launched by the SC and ST Welfare Department, Government of Bihar aims to provide ₹1,000/- per month to the students studying in Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe hostels.  

Under this scheme, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students studying in hostels are given the facility of a cot, mattress, bed-sheet, table and chair for studying, utensils for cooking and kitchen, etc. In this sequence, to increase the facilities being provided to the students and make the students from the weaker sections of society aware of higher education increasing the rate of higher education and fulfilling the hostel-related needs of the students.

Benefits
Grant of ₹1,000/- per month. 
Eligibility
The student should be a resident of Bihar state.
The student belongs to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe. 
The student should be enrolled and reside in hostels following the departmental guidelines and instructions operated by the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Welfare Department.
The student should be studying in a recognized course.
The student should be studying in a recognized educational institution.
Application Process
Offline

Step-1: The interested applicant requests a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the Hostel Superintendent or writes an application in plain paper.
Step-2: Submit the duly filled and signed application along with the documents to the Hostel Superintendent.
Step-3: After receiving the student's application, the list of students and related information will be uploaded/online on the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Welfare Department portal by the Hostel Superintendent.
Documents Required
Resident Proof.
Caste Certificate.
Proof of Enrolment in a Recognized Educational Institution.
Residence in a Recognized Hostel.
Bank Detail.
Any Other Document (If required).
