Mukhyamantri Asangathit Karmakar Cycle Sahayata Yojana
Chhattisgarh
EmpowermentVehicleWomen
Details
Labor Department of Chhattisgarh State started this scheme "Mukhyamantri Asangathit Karmakaar Saayakal Sahaayata Yojana" for unorganized worker on 28 April 2012. Under this scheme, One cycle will be provided free of cost to each women beneficiary. The main objective of the scheme to empower the unorganized female worker through provide them free cycle. 

Benefits
A free of cost cycle will be provided. 
Eligibility
Applicant must be an unorganized female worker.
Applicant registered in any district of the Chhattisgarh state.
Applicant must be between the ages of 18 and 40.
Applicant must not be receiving benefits under any other parallel scheme of the State Government for the same purpose.
Application Process
Online
Unregistered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Asangathit Shramik Panjikaran"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Check the eligibility criteria for registration in Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board and click next. 
Fill out the online "Registration form".
Submit.


Already Registered Applicant :
All the applicant have to visit the official website Chhattisgarh Labour Department. 
On the home page click on "Apply" under "Chhattisgarh Unorganized Workers State Social Security Board".
Enter the following details
Select Group Name : "Asangathit Marmakaar Mandal"
Select Service : "Yojana"
What do you want to do : "Aavedan"
Click next.
Select your district name and provide old/new registration number and click next.
Select the scheme name. 
Fill out the online with required details. 
Submit.
Documents Required
Aadhar card.
Permanent residence certificate.
Bank account details.
Registration card.
