Scheme for Celebration of Birth/death Anniversary of Eminent Personalities
Delhi
AnniversaryFinancial AssistanceJayantisNGO
Details
The "Scheme for Celebration of Birth/Death Anniversary of Eminent Personalities" was launched by the Department for the Welfare of SC / ST / OBC / Minorities, Government of NCT of Delhi. The scheme aims to assist in the organization of events for the Birth/Death anniversaries of prominent figures who have significantly contributed to social justice and the upliftment of weaker sections of society.  

The programs that may be organized to celebrate the Birth/Death Anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Sant Ravidas, and Maharishi Balmiki are indicated below as an illustration:
Appropriate Cultural Programmed.
A conference or symposium on themes like
Life & Work of the Great Saint.
Contribution of eminent personality to Social Justice.
Road map for building a society based on the principles of social justice, equity, equality of opportunity, etc.
Other related subjects.
A quiz/debate/essay competition etc. on the life and work of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar for the promotion of social justice, for its students. The winners to be given cash prize along with a book(s) on Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar.

Benefits
Assistance for the arrangements of celebrations up to a maximum of ₹50,000/- per occasion, for a maximum of two occasions in one year.
Note: Assistance for the celebration of Birth/Death Anniversaries of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Sant Ravidas, and Maharishi Balmiki will be provided through empaneled agencies. 
Eligibility
The NGOs should be registered under the Societies Registration Act.
The registered NGOs should have audited accounts.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST/OBC and request a hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the Department for the Welfare of SC/ST/OBC.
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the concerned authority to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).

Note-1: The application is submitted at least 15 days in advance.
Note-2: The recommendation letter is not mandatory during the enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct during elections.
Documents Required
Audited Accounts of the NGO.
Recommendation Letter (from the area MLA or the Minister in charge).
Details of Previous Celebrations/Activities.
Invitation Card, Backdrop, Banner, Posters .
Event Photographs.
