Marketing Development Assistance Scheme
Ministry Of Tourism
Financial AssistanceInternationalOperatorsPromotionTourism
Details
The Ministry of Tourism launched the Marketing Development Assistance (MDA) Scheme under the Overseas Promotion & Publicity (OPP) Scheme. The scheme aims to provide financial support to tourism service providers approved by the Ministry of Tourism, Govt. of India or the respective State Government / Union Territory (UT) Administration for undertaking promotion and marketing of India in the overseas markets. 

Objectives: 
To motivate stakeholders to promote tourism to the country from the overseas markets.
To enhance the visibility of the brand Incredible India in the overseas markets.
To augment foreign tourist arrivals to the country.

Benefits
For Tourism Service Providers
Financial support for study tours, and participation in travel shows/exhibitions/road shows in overseas markets (organized by the Ministry of Tourism) will be provided up to a maximum of ₹3,50,000/- per case/tour.
                            Sr. No.                         Particulars                  Extent of Support 
1 Economy class airfare for travel between India to another country and from there to a group of countries by air/rail. 90%
2 Cost of built-up/furnished stall, electricity and water charges, participation fee, etc., at travel fair/exhibitions held overseas. 90%
3 Lodging expenses on overseas tour  Max. 5 nights with an upper ceiling of room rate at ₹10,000/- per night.

For Tourism Departments of State Governments / UT Administrations
Financial support for participation in overseas travel shows and exhibitions will be provided as follows:
                             Sr. No.                               Particulars                    Extent of Support
1.  Cost of built-up/furnished stall, electricity and water charges, participation fee, etc., at travel fair/exhibitions held overseas.
Overall ceiling of ₹3,50,000/-.
2. Since, the representatives of State Govts and UTs are provided TA/DA by the States/UTs, the provisions of financial assistance towards international air fare and lodging are not applicable to them. 

For Tourism Service Providers /Tourism Departments of State Governments / UT Administrations 
Financial support for online promotion of tourism destinations and products in overseas markets, including digital content creation, will cover 50% of the total cost, up to ₹1,00,000/- per financial year, subject to actuals.
Eligibility
The tourism service providers should be travel agents, inbound tour operators, tourist transport operators, classified hotels, classified bed & breakfast units, classified home stays, classified motels, guest houses & tented accommodation units, standalone restaurants, convention centers, and online aggregators, sales tours, participation in travel fairs/exhibitions and road shows (organized by Ministry of Tourism), online promotion of tourism destinations and products, tour packages in the overseas markets, including content creation/production of digital promotional brochures/leaflets etc.
The tourism service providers should be approved by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, or the concerned State / Union Territory Tourism Department.
The approved tourism service providers should show a minimum fee of ₹1.00 crore – ₹2.00 crore in any of the preceding two years i.e. 2018-19 or 2019-20, the number of tours may be limited to a maximum of two in one financial year. 
The approved tourism service providers should show a minimum fee of ₹2.00 crore and above in one of the preceding two years i.e. 2018-19 or 2019-20, the number of tours may be limited to a maximum of three in one financial year. 
Tourism departments of State Governments / UT Administrations are also eligible to avail benefits under the Scheme. However, the above eligibility conditions do not apply to them.
Application Process
Online
Prior Approval:
Step 01: The TSP/SG/UT shall obtain Prior Approval from the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, before undertaking a tour overseas.
Step 02: The applicants download the prior approval application form Annexure-I. 
Step 03: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 04: Submit the duly filled and signed application form at least 21 days before the tour to the Assistant Director General (Overseas Marketing) via email at mda-tourism@gov.in.

Reimbursement Claims:
After undertaking the tourism promotional activity/tour abroad for which Prior Approval had been accorded by the Ministry of Tourism the Tourism Service Provider / State Govt./ UT Administration will apply to reimbursement/claim. 
Step 01: The applicants download the claim application form Annexure-II, III & IV. 
Step 02: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 03: Submit the duly filled and signed application form within 45 days of completion of the activity to the Assistant Director General (Overseas Marketing), Ministry of Tourism via email at mda-tourism@gov.in.

NOTE: Submission of claims in physical form will not be accepted. 
Documents Required
For Prior Approval:
Proof of TSP approval by Ministry of Tourism or State/UT Tourism Department.
Declaration/Undertaking of no investigation or debarment.
FEE certificate certified by a Chartered Accountant.

For Reimbursement:
Financial assistance details of the past three years.
Air tickets and boarding passes or passport pages with immigration stamps.
Tour report (maximum 250 words).
Original receipts and proof of payments for air tickets, booth setup, participation fees, and lodging.
