Medical Expenses for Treatment of Major Ailments (O.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Odisha
AilmentsBuilding WorkerConstruction WorkerLabourMedical ExpensesSurgeryTreatment
Details
The “Medical Expenses for Treatment of Major Ailments” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide financial assistance as medical expenses for the treatment of beneficiary or his/ her dependents suffering from disease of Nervous system (Brain & spine related), Cardiovascular System, Kidney and Cancer. The beneficiary should be registered at least for one year in lines of the Odisha State Treatment Fund.

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance: ₹3,00,000/-.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be a registered member of the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board or the applicant should be a dependent of the member.
The beneficiary should be registered at least for one year in line of the Odisha State Treatment Fund.
The applicant should suffer from any major diseases.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family & Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.
Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Aadhaar Linked Bank Passbook Front Page Copy (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Passport Size Photo (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Aadhaar Card (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Signature of Applicant (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Employment certificate (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Xerox copy of Registration Certificate of the beneficiary duly attested by DLO/ ALO/ RLI of the concerned district.
Xerox copy of updated annual contribution receipt to be verified by the DLO/ ALO/ RLI of the concerned district.
Essentiality Certificate to be filled completely and to be signed not below the rank of Assistant Surgeon of Government Hospital.
All original Bills should be verified by the treating doctor and it should be signed on the face of the bills with a seal.
In case of disability due to accident caused during employment and as per the OB & OCWW Board Rules, Disability Certificate by a Medical Board to be submitted stating the cause of accidents, percentage of disability with permanent/ temporary nature.
In case of Temporary Disability, the construction worker is eligible only for medical treatment.
