Maternity Benefit (O.B.O.C.W.W.B)
Odisha
Building WorkerChild DeliveryConstruction WorkerLabourMaternityPregnancy CareWomen
Details
The “Maternity Benefit” scheme by the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, Labour Department, Odisha, is a welfare scheme for the registered workers of the board. Under this scheme, the Board shall provide financial assistance in the form of maternity benefits to the female beneficiaries subject to a maximum of two children who  are registered beneficiaries for a period of more than one year under the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.

Benefits
Quantum of Assistance: ₹8,000/- to ₹10,000/- per Child.
For eligible beneficiaries under “Mamata” being implemented by W&CD Department: ₹15,000/- (₹10,000/- under OB&OCWW Board and ₹5,000/- under “Mamata”).
Note: Assistance shall be given for a maximum of two children.
Eligibility
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
The applicant should be a resident of Odisha.
The applicant should be a Building/ Construction Worker.
The applicant should be between 18 and 60 years.
The applicant should have engaged in building and construction work for at least 90 days in a given year.
The applicant should not be a member of any other Welfare Fund established under any law.
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
The applicant should be female.
The applicant should be a registered member of the Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
The applicant should be registered for a period of one year or more under the board.
The applicant should be pregnant.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Step 1: Visit the official website of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Click on “One Time Registration” on the top right side of the page.
Step 3: Click on the Declaration box and then on the “Proceed” button.
Step 4: In the next window fill in all the required details carefully and click on “Proceed”.
Step 5: Enter the received OTP and click on “Submit”.
Step 6: Your account will be successfully created and a Username will be displayed (Keep the Username for future references).
Application Process of the Welfare Scheme:
Step 1: Visit the Applicant Login page of the Odisha BOCWW Board.
Step 2: Enter your Username, OTP and fill in the captcha then click on “Sign In”.
Step 3: In the next window, fill in your General Details, Address Details, Family & Nominee Details, Details of the establishment(s) where the applicant worked during the last one year, Bank Details etc. and then click on “Submit”.
Step 4: Now in the Menu bar section, click on “Benefit”. From the list select the concerned benefit you want to apply.
Step 5: Fill in all the mandatory details carefully and click on “Submit” to complete the application process.
Check Your Application Status: Registered workers can check their application status through visiting this link upon entering their Application Tracking Number.
Pay Annual Contribution: Registered workers can pay the Annual Contribution through visiting this link upon entering their Registration Number.
Documents Required
For Registration as a Building/ Construction Worker:
Aadhaar Linked Bank Passbook Front Page Copy (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Passport Size Photo (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Aadhaar Card (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Signature of Applicant (Allowed type: PNG, JPG. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
Employment certificate (Allowed file types: PNG, JPG, PDF. Allowed size: less than 500 KB).
For the Application of the Welfare Scheme:
Registration ID card of the member.
Proof of deposit of annual contribution of the member.
Medical Certificate.
Any other documents if required.
