State Marriage Assistance Scheme
Ladakh
Differently-abled PersonFemaleFinancial AssistanceMarriage
Details
"The 'State Marriage Assistance Scheme,' launched by the Department of Social and Tribal Welfare, UT Ladakh, aims to provide one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000/- to female beneficiaries from AAY or PHH ration cardholder families. Additionally, Divyangjan beneficiaries receive ₹1,00,000/-. Applications can be submitted through the District or Tehsil Social Welfare Officer in Leh or Kargil."

Benefits
One-time financial assistance of ₹50,000/- shall be given to female beneficiaries. 
Financial assistance of ₹1,00,000/- has been given to Divyangjan beneficiaries. 
Eligibility
The applicant should belong to Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) or Priority Household (PHH) ration cardholder families. 
The bride and bridegroom should be permanent residents of Ladakh
The bride should be above 18 years of age.
The bridegroom should be above 21 years of age.
The marriage should be the first marriage between the bride and the groom.
The divyangjan applicants with benchmark disabilities as defined in “The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 are eligible. 
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: The interested applicant should visit (during office hours) the office of the District Social Welfare and request the hard copy of the prescribed format of the application form from the staff exclusively entrusted to issue and collect filled-in applications.
OR
The interested applicant should take print of the prescribed format of the application form.
Step 2: In the application form, fill in all the mandatory fields, paste the passport-sized photograph (signed across, if required), and attach copies of all the mandatory documents (self-attest, if required).
Step 3: Submit the duly filled and signed application form along with the documents to the District Social Welfare Officer/ Tehsil Social Welfare Officer/Social Worker of the Department at Leh/Kargil
Step 4: Request a receipt or acknowledgment from the District Social Welfare Officer/ Tehsil Social Welfare Officer/Social Worker of the Department at Leh/Kargil to whom the application has been submitted. Ensure that the receipt contains essential details such as the date and time of submission, and a unique identification number (if applicable).
Documents Required
Two Passport-size Photographs – Both Bride and Bridegroom.
Aadhaar Card – Both Bride and Bridegroom.
Birth Certificate – Both Bride and Bridegroom.
AAY/PHH Ration card in which Applicant’s or her Father/Husband's (in case of widow) name is mentioned (certificate issued by S.D.M/Tehsildar).
Resident Certificate (issued by S.D.M/Tehsildar).
Death Certificate of ex-husband in case of widow applicant.
Divorce Decree (issued by a court in case of the divorced applicant).
Affidavit (she has not been married before for the unmarried female applicant).
UDID Card Copy or Certificate of Disability.
