Kailash Mansarovar Yatra- Madhya Pradesh
Madhya Pradesh
Financial AssistanceKailashMansarovarPilgrim
Details
The scheme "Kailash Mansarovar Yatra" is implemented by the Religious Trusts and Endowments Department, Government of Madhya Pradesh. The objective of this scheme is to provide financial assistance to the pilgrims of the state going on the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. Such persons of Madhya Pradesh, who have completed the journey of Kailash Mansarovar after finding a place in the list of persons selected by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, they will have to present the certificate of the actual expenses incurred on the journey after the journey and the expenses incurred on such journey, 50% of the expenditure will be reimbursed by the State Government up to a maximum of ₹30,000/-.

Benefits
Under this scheme, the State Government will reimburse 50% of the total expenses incurred during the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, up to a maximum of ₹30,000/- per pilgrim, upon submission of the required certificate/documents.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Madhya Pradesh.
The applicant must have completed the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra after being selected by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India.
Only individuals who have been selected by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, for the pilgrimage are eligible for the benefits of this scheme.
The applicant should not be an income taxpayer.
Each individual is eligible for the grant only once in their lifetime.
Note 1: To avail of the benefits of this scheme, pilgrims must submit all documents detailing their actual expenses incurred during the journey.
Note 2: If both husband and wife are selected for the pilgrimage, their eligibility for travel benefits will be as per the guidelines of the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India.
Application Process
Offline
Eligible pilgrims should apply for financial assistance/grant using the prescribed form, along with records of their pilgrimage certified by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, to the concerned District Collector, Madhya Pradesh within 60 days of completing their pilgrimage.
The office of the concerned Collector will disburse the grant amount after verifying the submitted records.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar card
Domicile certificate of Madhya Pradesh
Details of expenditure incurred on the journey 
Copy of passport
Certificate of completion of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra
Certificate regarding selection by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India
Bank passbook/bank account details
Any other required documents
