Mamata Scheme
Odisha
Financial AssistanceMaternity BenefitNutritional SupportPregnant Women And New Mothers
Details
In order to improve the process in curbing the high rate of mortality and infant mortality rate, the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Odisha introduced a scheme named "MAMATA" - a conditional cash transfer maternity benefit scheme in 2011. 
Aim of the scheme:
Contribute in reducing the maternal and infant mortality.
Improve the health and nutrition status of pregnant and lactating mother and their infants.
Objectives of the scheme:
To provide partial wage loss compensation for the pregnant and nursing mothers with the aim to provide complete rest before and after the child birth.
Increase in utilization of child health services especially immunization. 
Improve mother and child care practices.

Benefits
Rs.3,000 shall be given during the third trimester of the pregnancy of the mother till delivery on completing the following 5 conditions:
Pregnancy registered at AWC/Mini AWC
Received at least 2 antenatal checkup (ANC)
Received IFA and calcium tablets.
Received at least 1 TT vaccination (out of optimal 2)
Received at least 1 counselling session at AWC/Village Health/ Home Visit.
The first 4 conditions shall be verified from MCP Card. On completing the above requirements first instalment shall be released. 
Rs.2,000 shall be after completion of 10 months after delivery on fulfilment of following conditions:
Child birth is registered at AWC or HSC. 
Child has received BCG vaccination.
Child has received Pentavalent 1 & 2 & 3 vaccinations. 
Child has received Polio 1 & 2 & 3 vaccinations.
Child has received Rotavirus 1 & 2 & 3 vaccinations.
Child has received Measles vaccine before attaining 1 year of age.
Child has received Vitamin-A first dose before attaining 1 year of age
Mother has attended at least six Growth Monitoring and IYCF counselling sessions after delivery till 9 months
Child has been exclusively breastfed for first six months (self-certification by the beneficiary)
Child has been introduced to complementary food on completion of six months of age (self- certification by the beneficiary)
Child is being fed age-appropriate complementary feeding and continuing (self- certification by the beneficiary)
Note: Overall, Rs.5,000 in two instalments as incentive is provided to mothers.
Eligibility
The applicant must be a resident of Odisha.
The scheme is primarily aimed at pregnant women. 
Pregnant & Lactating women of 19 years of age and above for the first two live births, except all Government/Public Sector Undertakings (Central and State) employees and their wives will be covered. 
Application Process
Online
Offline
MAMATA mobile Application may be downloaded using URL: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.emamata.odisha&hl=en_IN&pli=1
The beneficiary may also log in on the department portal to apply for the scheme. URL: https://emamata.odisha.gov.in/login
In case the beneficiary has forgotten the password, the same can be reset by visiting URL : https://emamata.odisha.gov.in/public/forgot/password
Documents Required
Proof of Identity (any 1 of the following):
Aadhar Card
Voter ID
Passport
PAN Card
Proof of Residence (any 1 of the following):
Ration Card
Utility Bill (Electricity, Water, Gas)
Rent Agreement or Property Tax Receipt
Proof of Pregnancy:
Medical Certificate or Pregnancy Record from a government health center or Anganwadi center
Income Certificate:
Certificate issued by a government authority proving your family's income (if income criteria apply)
Bank Account Details:
Bank passbook or a recent bank statement for the account where the financial assistance will be credited
Aadhaar Enrollment Slip or Acknowledgement (if Aadhaar card is not yet received)
Photographs:
Recent passport-sized photographs of the applicant
Maternity Record:
Maternity registration record or any relevant documents from health services.
Previous Beneficiary Status (if applicable):
Any documentation if you have received benefits from similar schemes previously.
