Student Housing Scheme for Students with Disabilities
Madhya Pradesh
Free Facility Of AccommodationHostelPwDStudent
Details
The scheme "Student Housing Scheme for Students with Disabilities" was launched by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh. Under this scheme, there is a provision to provide free housing facilities to a group of 5 disabled students, to motivate them for higher education, by providing accommodations to them. The accommodations are provided at a rental building. The group of disabled students of the state will be able to avail the benefit of hostels for studying in the other states of the country also.

Benefits
Free facility of accommodation to 01 or more than 01 (group of maximum 05 children) within the fixed rate of rent at the rate prescribed by the Rent Control Authority.
The maximum monthly rent amount of the building including electricity and other expenses is determined for the following category of cities-
For A category cities, up to ₹10,000/- will be payable.
For B category cities, up to ₹7,000/- will be payable.
For C category cities, up to ₹5,000/- will be payable.
Note: The amount will be paid directly into the landlord's account through NEFT/RTGS/DBT as far as possible.
Eligibility
The applicant should be a resident of Chhattisgarh.
The applicant should be a student with disabilities.
The applicant should have a disability of 40% or above.
The applicant should have passed the Higher Secondary Examination.
The applicant should be enrolled as a regular student in a College, Polytechnic, or ITI (students failing in any academic session will not be eligible).
The distance between the applicant's original residence and the educational institution should be more than 20 kilometers.
Application Process
Offline
Step 1: Regular students enrolled in College, Polytechnic, or ITI should form a group of 5 eligible students.
Step 2: Write an application on plain paper, including the complete bio-data of all 5 students. Attach separate certificates proving enrollment in a regular course for each student.
Step 3: Include resident certificates and Disability Certificates issued by the medical board for all students in the group.
Step 4: Obtain a certificate verifying that the distance from the applicant's original residence to the educational institution is more than 20 kilometers. This certificate should be issued by the respective Sarpanch or Panch, or Council of the Municipal Corporation, Municipality, or Nagar Panchayat.
Step 5: Submit the complete set of applications to the District Office of the Joint/Deputy Director Social Welfare.
Note: Students should submit applications annually.
Post-Application Process:
The Joint/Deputy Director of the Social Welfare District Office has the authority to approve or reject applications but must provide reasons for any rejections.
The Joint/Deputy Director will seek the Collector's approval for all applications received.
The approving authority must make a decision and notify the applicant within 30 days of receiving the application. The applicant will be informed whether the application is accepted or rejected.
After acceptance of rent, an agreement in the prescribed format will be prepared with the landlord. Copies will be provided to the police station, the Joint/Deputy Director of Social Welfare, and all concerned parties.
A monthly verification of the accommodation will be conducted, and a certificate from the landlord will be obtained, confirming that the students are residing there and not involved in any unlawful activities.
If a student fails to reside in the rented accommodation for two consecutive months, their approval will be canceled. Approval will only be granted again upon reapplication with a valid reason.
Documents Required
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof i.e. Aadhaar card
Educational qualification certificates
Disability certificate
Certificate regarding studying as regular students in the college (Issued by the Principal/Head of the Institution of the concerned College/Polytechnic/ITI)
A certificate from the Sarpanch, Panch, or Councilor confirming that the original residence is 20 kilometers or more from the college
Any other documents as required
