Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme- Chhattisgarh
Chhattisgarh
BPLDisabilityIndira GandhiPensionPWD
Details
The scheme "Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme" is implemented by the Social Welfare Department, Government of Chhattisgarh. Under this scheme, financial assistance is provided to severely disabled (with a disability of 80% and above) and multi-disabled individuals aged 18 to 79 years who are living below the poverty line (BPL) to support them in living a respectful life. This scheme is centrally sponsored.

Benefits
Under this scheme, eligible beneficiaries will receive a monthly pension of ₹500/-, (Central contribution- ₹300/-, State Contribution- ₹200/-).
Eligibility
The applicant should be a native of Chhattisgarh.
The applicant should be a person with multiple disabilities.
The applicant should have severe disabilities (with a disability percentage of 80% or above).
The applicant’s age should be between 18 and 79 years.
The applicant's name should be included in the list of families living Below Poverty Line.
The applicant should not be receiving pension benefits from any other Central or State Government pension scheme.
Note 1: Severe disability means any one type of disability which is more than 80%.
Note 2: Multiple disabilities means more than one type of disability.
Application Process
Online
Offline
Registration Process:
Step 1: Go to the ﻿eDistrict Chhattisgarh Portal.
Step 2: Click on "Citizen Login".
Step 3: If you are a new user, select "New Registration".
Step 4: Enter your registration details and click "Submit".
Step 5: Your Registration Summary will be displayed, and you will receive your password on your registered mobile number.
Application Process:
Step 1: Go to the eDistrict Chhattisgarh Portal.
Step 2: Click on ‘Login’ or "Citizen Login".
Step 3: Enter your username and password, and then click ‘Login’.
Step 4: After logging in, click on "My Service" and search for the scheme to apply for.
Step 5: Click on ‘Apply Online’ and fill in all required details, upload necessary documents, and click ‘Submit.’
Documents Required
Aadhaar card of the applicant
Passport-size photograph
Identity proof 
Domicile certificate of Chhattisgarh (Issued by a Gazetted Officer, Sarpanch or Councillor)
Disability certificate issued as per the provision of Persons with Disabilities Act-1995
Proof of age (Doctor's certificate, Birth Certificate, Certificate issued by an Administrator, Sarpanch, or Mayor, school certificate, etc.)
Below Poverty Line (BPL) Card/related documents
Address proof
Bank Passbook/Post Office Account Passbook
Any other documents as required
